---
title: "A bit of mortification"
date: "2004-10-07"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "a-bit-of-mortification"
---

_From an old journal_

I've had many opportunities to be cruel. I've taken most of them and
proven my lack of "good" on many occasions. Betrayals, deceits, the
whole lot. Someone told me once that I am wonderful to my friends,
terrible to my girlfriends, and horrific to those I'm indifferent to. I
understand I can be despicable at times, annoying constantly, and mean
with regularity. I don't mind these things too much. My friends still
enjoy my company. However, I can look back and feel guilt for those
people whom I've slighted wrongly. Those who might have become my
closest of friends had I given them the opportunity. People who may have
even loved me.

I have very animalistic concerns when it comes to partners; concerns
which I've tried to overlook with many of my girlfriends, and which I
can subjugate given enough time and energy. Even so, they are built into
me deeply, and come into my mind often when appropriate. I'm sure it is
based upon a care that my children will be as healthy as possible, and
that should be a positive thing, but I have a nagging feeling that to
voice my care for the unblemished health of my partner to others would
seem taboo. When I meet a girl who has a family history of cancer, or
heart disease, or short lifespan, headaches, bone disorders, skin
ailments, or any other problem which may have a root in genetics I get
standoffish. I worry about adding more problems into my bloodline that I
already have.

She was one of the reasons I went to Rowan, though I suppose you could
say it was for her ideals. Her group, her friends, the whole lot, seemed
like the perfect place for me to seek out next. By the time I got there,
though, I had all but forgotten. We found each other later, in many
ways. In ways that neither of us had expected, or even desired, in the
past. We were growing closer, something which is often considered a good
sign, but there were problems.

She had problems, as I said. She wasn't an immaculate specimen by any
stretch of the word. In fact, she may have been the single most
unhealthy woman I'd ever been with. Had modern technologies and
medicines not been present, she surely wouldn't have been living and
interacting with me at that moment. And so, with those worries in mind,
I severed the problem before it arrived. I ended things before they were
started, no matter how good they could have been. A compatible match
psychologically, personally, and emotionally we were, but physically,
the worry was too great for me.

Did I tell her this? Did I share my very real concern with her and let
her know that I had reasons for not wanting things to go farther? Of
course not. Somewhere inside I justified myself by thinking that she
wouldn't want to hear so honest a comment from me, knowing that she
would always live with her health, and having to fear that there were
others out there like myself who would turn away from a good thing
simply for that reason. I just vanished. I said nothing and that was the
end of the story. Guilt built up, of course. But I have never contacted
her since, nor will I. When I make a mistake, I like to live with it
forever. A bit of masochism perhaps. Maybe like the whip of a monk, it
is a bit of pain I keep around to remind myself of my sins.

I think, sometimes, that the reason I fought so hard to accept other
girlfriend's health issues was because of that girl. I didn't want to
give up another opportunity for my selfishness. I'm not sure how I stand
on the issue now, though. Perhaps I'll meet someone really healthy and I
wont have to worry about it anymore.

Here's hoping for that impeccable luck of mine to pan out a few more
times.
