---
layout: "post"
title: "A Fool's Journey"
date: "2007-02-24"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
  - "Tarot"
  - "Writing"
slug: "a-fools-journey"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">And the first beast was like a lion,
and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a
man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle.</span>

    - Revelations 4:7

While working on my book tonight I fell back onto a popular theme of
mine. My mind started rambling over the idea of the hero's journey,
Joseph Campbell, and eventually (and inevitably) the Tarot.

It's been a really long time since I've done any Tarot readings of any
note, but I suppose it's one of those things that will never leave me.
Whenever a friend I know starts learning, a part of me wants to cry out,
"That's what I used to do!" Or perhaps I want to just dig out a deck and
show them what it's all about. More than likely I am feeling that deep
urge within me to jump into the spotlight and show the world what I can
do. That's not what I want to be like, though, and I quickly fight back
the urge.

I imagine things like this happen for other people too. Sometimes I feel
a deep guilt that underneath it all, I'm just a selfish person wanting
attention. That's not why I learned what I learned. That's not why I
practiced it. That's not even why I taught people. So why now, after all
this time, is my only motivation showing off?

Perhaps it's a sign of growth that I'm aware of it now. Maybe I was like
this before, but the guilt wasn't there to illuminate me. I doubt it,
though.

Tonight, anyway, the motivation wasn't ego. I looked over the first few
chapters of my book and realized that I had finally begun the story of
the Major Arcana in a way that wasn't obvious or ostentatious. It was
almost refreshing to look at my work and not feel completely inadequate
or predictable. Of course, I can't say for certain that I'll feel the
same way in the morning.

I hope that the Tarot helps me to add strength and clarity to the book.
The story is about a fool's journey through the world of the occult,
after all. It's fitting.
