---
title: "A Game of Thrones"
date: "2008-04-26"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Epic"
  - "Fantasy"
  - "Fiction"
slug: "a-game-of-thrones"
---

![A Game of Thrones][]

I'd like to start off by saying I'm a sucker for a good fantasy book.
You can call it a weakness, or a predilection, or preference, and I
won't argue with you. Since my dad brought home my first Piers Anthony
book when I was a child, reading about sword and sorcery has always made
me smile.

Of course my love of the genre does not necessarily translate to my love
of a particular book. I've read enough epic fantasy stories to find many
clich√©, obtuse, obvious, or the dreaded fan-boy driveling of an author
who is obsessed with their old Dungeons and Dragons characters.

When I picked up <span style="text-decoration:underline;">A Game of
Thrones</span>, I knew straight away it wasn't going to be one of those
amateur pieces. At the same time, though, I recognized right away that
George R.R. Martin was in no hurry to rush into the action.

In much the same way as <span style="text-decoration:underline;">The
Wheel of Time</span>, the book began laboriously slow. I admit it took
me more than a few tries to finally push through to the end. In fact,
with many of these epic stories that are planned to be a series from the
start, much of the first book is just set-up, character development,
setting and mechanics development, or training to get you in the habit
of reading lots of silly names. For <span
style="text-decoration:underline;">A Game of Thrones</span>, there was
plenty of that last part.

By the time I had reached the halfway point of the book, I was ready to
call it quits on the series. Nothing much had happened and I wasn't very
attached to any of the characters. One of my biggest complaints was that
the author seemed to give each of his chapters only a single scene that
when concluded would inevitably end with a cliffhanger and a switch to a
new point of view. The result was that as each chapter ended I found
myself just settling in to that character, only to be jolted over to a
new one.

The quick character swaps eventually lost their sting as I took them in
the stride of the greater story. Once the hand-full of cast members were
established, Martin's chapter technique seemed fitting. When a chapter
ended and a new one began with the new character's name printed in
bolded letters as a title, I would smile and look forward to picking up
where we had left off a few chapters earlier.

As my progress reached about 70%, I hit the 'hook' as I like to call it.
That is the moment when the story has you so fully invested, finishing
is no longer in question. 70% might be a new record for leisure in the
fantasy setting, one that I'm not sure Martin should be proud of. It
seems a bit excessive for anyone but the most invested reader.

Aside from the lengthy introductions, this book did have its charms. It
is rare to find an author so comfortable with killing off his
characters. The result is a very gritty world where showing any mercy
leads to tragic death. Perhaps it isn't the most upbeat message, but as
one character explains, "When you play the game of thrones, you win or
you die."

Martin's characters are colorful, dynamic, capable of learning and
growing yet still subject to their core qualities and weaknesses.
Concepts like honor and duty are double-edged swords, as likely to lead
to impossible and dire situations as they are to glory. It is not a book
of fairytales where the valiant always win, but somehow it does leave
you with a sense of hope. Perhaps it's just hope that all of the books
in the series won't be so dark.

All in all, my biggest complaint was also my biggest distraction from
the characters and plot. The sexuality in certain scenes burst forth in
an often awkward or haphazard way, both graphic and violent. While some
might try to argue that it supported and expanded on the bitter settings
and grizzly characters, I believe these parts of the book were little
more than the author's frustrations passing onto the page. After the
hundredth rape, I felt less convinced that the men of this world had
different values than me than I felt sure that the author had a bad
date-night.

After several reading attempts, a long period of development, surprising
deaths, beautiful battles, raunchy sex, despicable characters and epic
cliffhangers, <span style="text-decoration:underline;">A Game of
Thrones</span> left me with a positive feeling for the rest of the
series. While I wont be running out to pick up the sequel today, it will
be on my short list for the future. With any luck the author found a
nice stable relationship before he penned book 2.

[Amazon Link][]

  [A Game of Thrones]: //blog.tomasino.org/images/a_game_of_thrones.jpg
  [Amazon Link]: //www.amazon.com/Game-Thrones-Song-Fire-Book/dp/0553573403/?tag=tomablog-20
