---
title: "A meeting in New York"
date: "2009-10-14"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Christianity"
  - "Discernment"
  - "Introspective"
  - "Solitude"
slug: "a-meeting-in-new-york"
---

> *Do not lie to one another, since you laid aside the old self with its evil practices, and have put on the new self who is being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the One who created him--a renewal in which there is no distinction between Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave and freeman, but Christ is all, and in all. So, as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience; <span style="font-weight:bold">bearing with one another, and forgiving each other</span>, whoever has a complaint against anyone; just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you.*

> *Beyond all these things put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body; and be thankful. Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you, with all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks through Him to God the Father.*

> *-Â Colossians 3:9-17*

I've been thinking a lot about the book [Priestly Virtues][], which I quoted a [while back][]. In it, Rev. O'Keefe talks a length about St. Thomas
Aquinas and the ways in which we develop our sense of virtue and form
ourselves into whom we want to be. We bring about change in ourselves
through our own actions, and through the grace of God, but also through
the relationships we have with our friends and family. In a very real
sense this community is a part of us, and we of it.

There was a time when I didn't see how my "community" could help me be
the person I feel called to be. If I couldn't see the values in them,
how would they be reflected back in my own life? So I learned to
emulate, or at least admire, the hermits who find their path to God
through grace and faith alone, without the aid of other people. I
wrapped myself up in my solitude and found it thrillingly conducive to
prayer and growth.

As much as I love solitude, though, I've become aware that my lack of
community with regard to my spiritual growth and discernment has its
costs. There are the obvious problems. I tend to stagnate and remain
fixed on one aspect of my discernment without noticing the graces moving
past me. Sometimes I talk myself into behavior that I know is contrary
to what I should be doing. I may walk the line too much, but these
aren't my only problems. It seems that without realizing it, I've become
stir-crazy.

I met with the Vocation Director of the [New York and Maryland Provinces
of the Society of Jesus][] last weekend. I was so nervous while I took
the train up to New York. My mind kept jumping back and forth between
extremes. On the one hand, I was hoping that he would ask me to begin
the application process, to begin writing my spiritual autobiography
(which is the first step in the process), and give me some guidance on
what to do next. On the other hand, I also had the irrational fears that
he'd tell me I wasn't right for the Society, that I wouldn't make a good
Jesuit and should do something else. It was a silly thought, but a fear
that was present nonetheless. Moreover, there were the insidious
middle-thoughts. Maybe he would tell me that I should wait another few
years to apply. Maybe he would tell me that I should look more into the
Dominicans. Maybe maybe maybe.

When we finally sat down to talk, my nervousness made me jumpy. I talked
way too much, rambled, and before I knew it I was talking about all
sorts of odd-ball theological topics. At one point I made the random
exclamation that I didn't like evangelical language because it seemed
unnatural and creates a separation for me between faith and daily
living. After-all, I've never used the word "rejoice" in normal
conversation. Why would I use it in prayer or worship?

The Director was great, though. He laughed with me at my randomness and
was in good spirits throughout our lunch-talk. In the end, he asked me
to begin my autobiography after all. All my worries were for nothing,
but the meeting revealed something important to me. I was so eager for
someone to talk to about theology, philosophy and discernment that I
jumped all over the poor man at any opening he gave me. My desire for
community has been bottled up, corked, and fermented for too long. I
need to let it air before my insides turn to vinegar.

So in the next few weeks, while I begin crafting my essay, I'll also be
trying to reach out more and talk about the topics that interest me.
I'll try to take more trips to [St. Joe's][] and meet with the Jesuits
there. I'll try to involve my friends and family more and talk about
things.

The people in my life aren't like they used to be. They're good people
and the virtue that can develop from living and sharing with them fits
right in line with what Rev. O'Keefe was talking about in his book. Who
knows, maybe next time I go to New York, I won't horribly embarrass
myself either.

  [Priestly Virtues]: //www.amazon.com/Priestly-Virtues-Reflections-Moral-Priest/dp/B000M6WBRC/?tag=tomablog-20
  [while back]: //blog.tomasino.org/?p=131
  [New York and Maryland Provinces of the Society of Jesus]: //www.jesuitvocation.org/
  [St. Joe's]: //www.sju.edu/
