---
title: "Answering the Call"
date: "2009-04-20"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "answering-the-call"
---

As the days count down to another move date I find myself getting
excited by all the things the future might bring. I keep reminding
myself not to plan too much and to just let things happen as God
intends. Letting things happen on their own is something I've never been
good at, as I mentioned [previously][], but with the help of some really
great people here in Atlanta and the spiritual direction I'm going
through at the [Ignatius House][], I feel more open to listening than
ever.

Just because I'm trying to be open to the call doesn't mean I'm going to
sit around waiting for things to fall in my lap, though. As much as I
try to just listen in prayer instead of talking my head off with all the
things I want to do and want to be, I understand that God will not live
my life for me. So this summer, in July, I intend to move up to
Pennsylvania and begin the application process to join the Jesuits. I've
updated my portfolio site at [jamestomasino.com][] and am actively
seeking a job or contract that will pay the bills for the next year
while I prepare. I'm making strides to keep in constant communication
with the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus as well, and trying
hard to keep myself grounded in daily prayer; though that part continues
to be a struggle with the work schedule of late. I know that entering
the novitiate and heading towards seminary isn't a decision, but a
continuation of my discernment, and that distinction gives me faith that
it is not my will stepping on my call, but rather a slow process of
active listening leading me on a path. Whether it takes me through it
all to ordination or leads me through a few years of growth in my faith
before telling me something else is right, this next step seems to be
what I am called toward.

Even my parents have become more supportive in the process. I was wary
of telling them at first, to be honest. Though I was raised Catholic,
our church life was never anything extraordinary. We went on Sundays,
when I could be dragged, and went home after. There was very little
involvement beyond the basics. My parents have always been very
supportive, though, even when I tell them I want to do something crazy,
like join the Navy, so it shouldn't have surprised me when my mom called
and told me she'd talked to a Franciscan from their parish about me. She
understands things better now, I think; and as she talks to more people
about it, she's been finding more and more friends who have relatives in
religious life. I think that's been important to her so that the whole
thing can be grounded in the world we know.

For my dad, the focus has been a little different. He's always wanted me
to be self sufficient, especially financially. So when I told him that I
was looking at religious life, I think he was probably a little
disappointed on that front. He too, however, has been growing more
supportive, or at least less opposed. He hasn't offered any of his
customary "suggestions" that I look into something else, so I take that
to be a very good sign.

I've had a rougher time with some of my friends who have known me a long
time. I don't blame them for not seeing it in me, though. I have never
been one to talk about faith with my friends, so it must seem pretty odd
or sudden for many of them. It's a habit I'm trying to work on, though,
with the people around me now. It's like Thomas Moore said, you should
develop virtues until they become habit.

So while I don't know what tomorrow will bring, I am excited for it.
God's path for me will take time to understand, and I can accept that.
I'll do what I can to keep moving forward, and with the help of friends
and family, I'll do my best to be my best at whatever it is I am
supposed to do. (Try saying that three times fast.)

  [previously]: https://blog.tomasino.org/?p=212
  [Ignatius House]: https://www.ignatiushouse.org/
  [jamestomasino.com]: https://www.jamestomasino.com
