---
title: "Application"
date: "2010-01-30"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Christianity"
  - "Discernment"
  - "Introspective"
  - "Sleep"
slug: "application"
---

> *[It] is not knowing much, but realizing and relishing things interiorly, that contents and satisfies the soul.*

> *- St. Ignatius Loyola - [Spiritual Exercises][], Second Annotation (1522-1524)*

A week ago I met with the Vocation Director for the Society of Jesus.
The interview was long, incredibly personal, and quite draining on both
of us; but in the end he invited me to continue my application for the
Novitiate. Now I have approximately four weeks to complete another 5
interviews, arrange for 5 letters of reference, get a physical, dental
exam, ophthalmologist exam, transcripts from everywhere, military service
records, church records, a psychological evaluation, and a partridge in
a pear tree. How am I taking it? I'm glowing with excitement.

This past week has been a blur of scheduling, e-mailing, phone
conversations, distracted prayers, and insomnia. It's been a long time
since the excitement of good things has kept me from sleep. I've missed
it.

Tonight, a friend from Atlanta talked to me about patience. He's doing a
study on it that sounds fascinating. He said something very important to
me that reaffirmed what I've been feeling through the discernment so
far, and what I've been feeling more than ever since that meeting last
week. He said, "a patience person is an active person...active in
standing either against something...or in the face of something."

It's the active part that resonates so well right now. This application
has certainly not been something to passively let happen. The Jesuits
have all been very up-front with me that to get through this process in
the right mind to move forward, I need to keep up my prayer life and
spirituality. I think that might be the action of patience my friend was
referring to—actively standing (or praying) in the face of the challenge
of constant discernment, interviews, and paperwork.

There is a certain quietness that comes from it, though, that reminds me
of the sense of calm, passive patience I'm used to. Rather than being
the core of the virtue, though, I'm beginning to see it more as the
result.

![Flame](https://blog.tomasino.org/images/flame.jpg)

The remarkable thing is how the process has done more than just force me
to consider my call. It's already begun changing my behavior, readying
me for a life to come. A lot of close people have started remarking
about the changes, and the support has been amazing. Whether from close
people now or those far into my past, all the prayers and sentiments
give me strength.

My choice to live my call is a continuous struggle to make the right
decisions, the decisions to follow what the Spirit is asking of me each
and every day. They are hard choices sometimes, taking me farther away
from the familiar and sometimes hedonistic past experiences and out on
to a limb where I am surprisingly exposed. That's where God likes to
keep me, though. It's part of the humility I'm always learning more
about. When we are exposed, weakened, without comfort, it is easiest to
turn to Christ for assistance. "Again I say to you, it is easier for a
camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter
the kingdom of God." (Mt. 19:24)

These next four weeks will be difficult to schedule, but they will also
be spiritually full. Every day I learn something new about myself and my
relationships with those around me. Spiritual indifference comes a
little closer. Contemplative prayer becomes more natural. Some people
call the application the true Jesuit postulancy, and I can see why.

As always, please keep me in your prayers. I'm praying for you too.

  [Spiritual Exercises]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spiritual_Exercises_of_Ignatius_of_Loyola
