---
title: "Backstory"
date: "2009-02-21"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "backstory"
---

I'm fairly certain that there's nothing more fun than writing. I don't
necessarily mean putting a pen to paper, or typing away chapter after
chapter on the computer. I mean the whole process of writing. Creating a
crazy concept in the back of your mind, thinking about it and developing
the nugget as you fall asleep, hoping your dreams will lead you into a
narrative, and waking up excited to jot it all down again before it
slips from you like mist from your ears.

I've been working on my story a lot recently, though not so much to keep
Kenn from making fun of me. I spent most of the plane ride from Salt
Lake City jotting down note after note about my characters. It was
deeply invigorating. A boy across the aisle kept trying to peek at what
I was writing. The whole experience put a smile on my face.

Best of all, none of it seems like a waste of time. There were days not
long ago when I would spend all my energy writing only to see the
results and toss them away. Looking back I can probably blame those days
on my own impatience; taking up the pen when I should have continued
working on the structure. Still, I think I need both types of writing to
survive the creative process. It's a truly amazing feeling when I write
so much and feel the story developing and flushing out, but I don't
think I'd have the will power to stick with it unless I occasionally
write from the hip, even knowing that the product will amount to less
than the effort.

Lately my focus has been on completing the backstory of my book. With
the first draft of the outline complete it's been a lot easier than I
expected. I let my mind and pen wander across the pages of a
[moleskine][] for a few hours and it's like the characters write
themselves. Before my plane ride, the father of my main character was a
shell whose only purpose in the plot was to die. Now he has a rich
history that entwines not only with the core characters, but also
manages to influence how I handle trade and business in the area, how I
treat foreign immigrants, and what roles are defined for the class
system in the southern province of a major country. It's not so much
that I wrote his story, it's that a gray blob of plot became vibrant and
alive.

I think that's the way it must be for authors who write as they go. The
discovery of what happens next and how it relates to what has come
before must feel as exciting and motivating as filling in my outline. I
used to wish I could write that way, but perhaps planning and outlining
isn't so devoid of the vigor itself.

I should get back to it now. I just wanted to share some of the
excitement I was feeling while it was still fresh.

  [moleskine]: https://www.moleskine.com/index_eng.php
