---
title: "Big Decisions"
date: "2007-03-25"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "big-decisions"
---

There are some big decisions that aren't hard at all. They come upon me
quite directly with clear paths and inviting assets. They are the
automatic type of tough decisions, like going to college, taking a job,
etc.

Sometimes it feels like part of growing up is running into more and more
of those tough decisions that aren't automatic. For instance, each of
the times I get that wanderlust itching me forward to a new city, the
automatic choice is harder and harder. Do I go to Alaska? Do I go to
Italy, to Toronto, to India? What about a pH.D.? Is it time yet, or
should I do more industry work. Or the more recent: Do I move back to
Indiana and start teaching?

On some level, I feel all important decisions have a bias in them.
Nature or God has a built in suggestion, but it gets harder and harder
to just choose it and be done. Still, the decisions are all singular
ones. Given time, you overcome. But what happens when the problems
complicate one another, though?

Do I move forward in a relationship that is good, if a bit scary,
because that is the way the choice is leaning? On the one hand, it
involves a lot of other good things, such as teaching, moving back where
I have already made friends (and enemies), finishing my pH.D., and an
assortment of other bonuses that are equally unrelated to the actual
relationship. Things would change, but is it so bad? Well, my wanderlust
would be hindered greatlyâ€“a problem that doesn't seem too bad now, but
can cause big issues down the line. Also, the selfish track of life
takes a big hit. Perhaps the oddest conflict is the religious one, though.

I've basically put my seminary thoughts on pause while I've debated on
this issue. The real complication comes from the way I ask the question:
Do I give up the seminary for a relationship, or do I give up a
relationship for the seminary? Each question, asked separately seems to
lean towards yes. It is right to sacrifice.

I've been avoiding this conversation for a while as I've tried to figure
things out on my own. Unfortunately, this decision isn't making itself.
All of the choices I'm making here are in a path to put off the choice.
I choose not to rent an apartment from my boss that, while nicer than my
current one, would tie me to this state for six months to a year. That
choice would force my hand in others, were I to make it. So I choose to
stay where I am, giving myself more time to try and choose Indiana, to
talk myself into it.

Is that really the best thing for me, for her? I know the choice should
be automatic, and were it not for the questions of self, nature, and
God, it truly would be. I could like that life I see for myself with
her. I could get past the headaches and frustrations that will accompany
it. I can ground myself in a place and plant roots. The choice of
standing up and saying definitively "Yes!" is the problem.

So I bend the rules as best I can. I make choices that will make the big
one easier. I send e-mails and resumes around, fishing for opportunity,
for invitation. And if these things provide me with a way back there,
with a job and an opportunity to better myself, then one of my blocks
crumbles out of the way. If I convince her that I'll need to move
around, that staying still in the same place for more than 6 years or so
will crush my spirit, and if she understand and accepts this, that is
another block crumbling.

There are many little choices I make because I'm not strong enough to
just make the big one. I play the non-committal game because I am scared
that if I choose too abruptly, or without comment, that I will regret,
blame, or at worse, resent her for it. Time has been my friend in this,
as is the distance of Alaska. I face these issues on my own as I need
to, without interruption or distraction. I just wish things were easier.
