---
date: 2022-02-27 17:39:34 +0000
title: "Bolludagur"
tags:
  - Iceland
---

Tomorrow is the first of three wonderful holidays in Iceland that make up
Fastelavn, a carnival leading up to Lent. This first day is Bolludagur, or "Bun
Day". As the name suggests there's a lot of sweet pastry action at the focus of
the holiday.

By old tradition, kids used to make colorful sticks with colored paper called
bolludagsvöndur (bun day wands) and then wack their parents with them. In one
story I heard it told that the kids would wack the parents in bed on the morning
of bolludagur and however many wacks they got in before the parents got out of
bed was the number of bollur they got to eat. I'm not sure how accurate that
story is, and that particular tradition seems to have been left in the past.
Shocking, I know.

Bolludagsbollur or bollur are a cream-bun pastry made from chocolate or
caramel-topped choux pastry (pâte à choux) and filled with whipped cream and
jam. There are many varieties and variations, though, and some shops get quite
elaborate with their offerings. Many people choose to assemble their bollur at
home, purchasing the choux buns from the grocery store or bakery and filling
them with their own favorite fillings and toppings.

That has been our method in the past, but this year I decided to put in a bit
more effort and create the bollur from scratch. Now I should preface the rest of
this post with the disclaimer: I like to cook, but I'm not much of a baker.
Still, I gave it my best try.

{{< figure src="/images/bolludagur-01.jpg" caption="Preparing the dough">}}

I started by looking online at various recipes for the buns. There's a few
varieties I found, but most seem to agree on water, milk, butter, salt, sugar,
all-purpose flour, and eggs. That's all stuff I have, so I figured I'm in good
shape. I made sure to measure everything by weight and followed the first recipe
to the letter.

Sadly, it turns out that recipe was missing a few important letters. As you may
be able to see in the picture above, my dough was much too liquidy at first.
I couldn't understand why, since I'd measured by weight. Thankfully I knew that
this step was effectively just making choux, so I abandoned my bollur recipes
and switched to those and quickly found my issue. My recipe called for four
eggs, added one at a time and worked into the dough. What it failed to say was
that depending on the size of your eggs, you may only need 2 or 3. It's all
about the consistency.

It was too late to go backwards, and my choux research warned against just
tossing in more flour. Instead I made another half-batch of the dough with zero
eggs and blended it with the original mixture. Finally my consistency was good
and I was ready to pipe it onto my pans.

{{< figure src="/images/bolludagur-02.jpg" caption="Piping onto the pan">}}

I'm not a baker. I don't have piping tools. What I do have is zip-lock bags.
I squeezed all my batter into a bag and snipped the tip and it worked just fine.

{{< figure src="/images/bolludagur-03.jpg" caption="Baking">}}

My original recipe called for the buns to be baked at 375°F or 190°C for 35
minutes. My choux recipe also had similar instructions, but for 30 minutes, and
recommended venting out the steam regularly and poking the tops with a toothpick
to let steam loose at the end. I followed the 190°C for 30 minutes instruction
but had to pull them out after 25 minutes because they were beginning to burn.
Perhaps it's my oven that's the issue, but I think 190°C was simply too hot. The
insides really did need that last 5 minutes to fully bake, but it would have
burned the outside to a crisp. Next time I'll try 170°C and give them a little
longer in the oven.

{{< figure src="/images/bolludagur-04.jpg" caption="Cooling on the rack">}}

Because the insides were undercooked, they did the expected thing and sunk down
flat. Without a crispy inner structure to hold them up this is a common
problem. Thankfully by pulling them out at 25 minutes they remained edible.

{{< figure src="/images/bolludagur-05.jpg" caption="Sunken a bit">}}

This was the least-sunken in of the buns. Not too bad, but I hope to improve
next time.

{{< figure src="/images/bolludagur-06.jpg" caption="Dipping in chocolate">}}

Leah ran out to grab some powdered sugar for the whipped cream, and while she
did so she also grabbed a set of store-bought buns as backup in case mine turned
out to be terrible. I tossed some chocolate chips in a porcelain bowl as
a double-boiler and then we dipped all the buns in for their topping.

{{< figure src="/images/bolludagur-07.jpg" caption="Side-by-side comparison">}}

Finally it was time to stuff them full of freshly whipped cream and a bit of
jam. We use rhubarb jam in ours, but it's a personal preference thing. In the
picture above the store-bought buns are on the left and my homemade ones are on
the right. Once they were all stuffed the difference isn't so clear.

Now we were ready for the taste test. I made one of each type for Wit, Leah, and
myself. The final verdict: homemade tastes better, even if they were less
fluffy.

Victory!

<!--  vim: set shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4 expandtab: -->
