---
title: "But oh, those summer nights"
date: "2009-06-15"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "but-oh-those-summer-nights"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">I think the sun is a flower,

That blooms for just one hour.</span>

    - Ray Bradbury - [All Summer in a Day][]

We sneaked up to the roof to share a cigarette. I didn't smoke–or hadn't
tried it before–but I wanted to be with her. She took a long drag off a
Virginia Slim, its delicate form a manufactured homage to her fingers,
her lips, her eyes, which closed sweetly to shut out the world as they
savored the flavor of the moment before parting again only to let her
treasure lift away on her breath, soft as the touch of a ghost and twice
as chilling. She breathed for both of us while I stood motionless,
afraid to disturb the air. Her eyes flashed up at me standing astride
the doorway. They were hungry.

My first taste of cigarette smoke was filtered by her lungs and drawn
through her lips, sweet and ashen, evoking images of vampires and other
morbid, sexual beings; a clear contrast against the brilliant summer sun
cutting in through the rooftop doorway. Instead, I thought to myself, I
should think her a spirit. The mist climbed its way around her head and
through her hair–still damp from the pool and ruffled from my
hands–where it all became lost again in the haze of too much or too
little light. I thought that if I looked away she might fade completely
and leave me only the taste on my lips by which to remember her.

The waves softly rolled down the shore some distance below us, but all
we could see was the brilliant sun, a few feet of stony roof and an
endless sea beckoning in the hypnotic way of great distances and
heights. My stomach pined with the urge to let go and step into the
abyss, wondering if I might be caught in that vapor as well and become
like her, only half real and magical.

![Beach Sunrise][]

We took too long to meet, she said. We'd wasted all our time with
flirting and wondering, daydreaming about what might be. Now that we
were together, it was already over; too much to say, to much to be done,
and neither of us had the stomach for it. We kissed.

The next day I sat the long drive home in silence. I let the sun wash
over me as I stared at it as directly as I could manage. Vision slowly
burned away and I was blind again and with her once more. She was the
ghost of light and dust, and I was still so as to not disturb. With a
deep breath I breathed her in, and for a moment tasted sweet ash before
it turned to salt and spread to my eyes.

Too much time wasted; too much dreaming and not enough living? Was it
all just time locked away in a closet, staring at the summer through a
crack in the door locked by my own hand? That day it seemed that way and
more. After all, it was the end of something beautiful before it had
begun, but distance cultures wisdom and perspective gathers peace. She
is a ghost, part of the past, with no purpose but to haunt. The other,
the one with the real lips that press gently and smile at children,
drove away that same day dealing with her own ghosts.

There is beauty there, and love of a sort. For all of that I am
thankful.

  [All Summer in a Day]: //www.westburyfriends.org/online/ela/giver/all%20summer%20reading.pdf
  [Beach Sunrise]: //farm1.static.flickr.com/94/236985410_699e3b2aab.jpg
