---
date: 2020-03-19 21:20:48 +0000
title: "COVID-19 in Iceland"
tags:
  - Iceland
  - COVID-19
---

COVID-19 (The Coronavirus) has been in Iceland now for a few weeks. It
began slowly, with a few Icelanders returning from holiday in Verona,
Italy. When a few of those showed symptoms, the rest of those traveling
and those who were in close contact with the travelers immediately went
into quarantine. Things were held tight.

Sadly, there were a few people who broke quarantine and spread the
infection, while travelers coming through Austria brought in a new
pathway for transmission. Little by little the infection rate has
grown until today we reached 330 infected. So far our only death
is a tourist who was infected abroad and traveled into the
country. Only three others are hospitalized, while many remain in
quarantine and the nation as a whole respects a ban on public
assembly.

In this post I want to take a few minutes to explain how things
are being handled here and why I'm proud of the actions in this
small nation.

First, I mentioned that we are under a public assembly ban. That
officially went into affect on Monday morning this week, though
many had already been self-isolating. For us that means that we
shouldn't gather into groups of more than 100 people, and we are
encouraged to avoid more than 10 in proximity. When we do
encounter others it should be at a distance of two meters.

This should all sound familiar as it's the same instructions we're
seeing around most of the world. Most business that can do so have
employees working from home. We still have construction crews
doing their jobs. Our primary school is still open (more on that
in a bit).

{{< figure src="https://blog.tomasino.org/images/covid-tests-infected.png" caption="Number of tests and infected in Iceland">}}

The public has been very well informed throughout every part of
this process. Our government has a daily press conference to
update the country on the situation, including figures, plans,
updates to instructions for the people, and so on. Unlike some
[other leaders who can't keep their hands to
themselves](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/03/13/trump-handshakes-coronavirus-press-conference/)
the conferences here involve everyone sitting at a table with
their own personal microphone. Questions are asked, information
shared, and that information has been consistent. In fact, if you
want to check any of the information for yourself you can pop over
to [https://covid.is](https://covid.is) and see for yourself. That
little flag icon in the corner is a dropdown and you can use the
British flag for English. (The graphics on this post are
screenshots from that page)

{{< figure src="https://blog.tomasino.org/images/covid-region.png" caption="Quarantine rates by region">}}

There are a few schools which have closed, and each area is
dealing with the specifics in their own way. As you can see from
the above image, there's data available region by region. (The
numbers can all be found at covid.is)

Here in Mosfellsbær, the primary school at Helgafellsskóli put out
inquiries to all the parents to see if they were affected by
isolation or quarantine, and whether they intended to send their
children to school. Based on those responses they closed the
school for one day to have all the staff put together a plan of
action. That was Monday. Later that day we got word back of the
plan during this pandemic:

The first, third, and fifth grades will go to school on dates that
are odd in number, while the second and fourth grades go on even
dates. Within each grade the students have been split into smaller
groups (A, B, C, etc). Each group of each grade is given
a specific time when school starts and ends, and a specific door
through which they will enter and exit. These are staggered and
arranged so that the groups do not cross each other's paths. They
play in isolated areas. They have separate bathrooms. And the
school is completely disinfected every night.

To supplement the teaching, extra assignments are sent home with
the kids to work on with parents during their off days. Those
children who are unable to come to school at all are given
learning packets with daily lesson plans and assignments that can
be used by the parents.

This is one specific example of the detail of thought that's being
put into things. Teachers are incredibly well respected here, and
deservedly so. They are brilliant and go through extensive
training to gain their positions. Iceland is routinely in the top
five educational systems worldwide year after year. We've seen
that first hand with how Wit is responding to things, even in
a foreign language.

Iceland is treating things seriously. In addition to public
safety, they're actively researching the virus and tracking its
progression. A local genetics company, deCODE, has been performing
full genome sequencing on the volunteer population of Iceland in
addition to those infected. If you look at that graph at the top
you can see how fast they are too. They're able to fully sequence
the genome of an individual in a matter of hours, and they're
looking not only for incidence rates, but also for signs of
mutation. The data coming out will help researchers across the
globe. Oh, did I mention that deCODE is doing all this for free?
Yeah, they're eating the costs.

When deCODE offered their help, the government actually turned
them down at first. There was the not-quite-totally-altruistic
nature that they would quickly be gathering a ton of data that
would be invaluable to them as a private company after the fact,
but also there was concern about the process and they wanted to
follow all the specific health rules that the government is bound
to. That only lasted one day, though, and they came to a common
ground and things have rapidly been increasing ever since.

And what about the health care system? Well, it was obvious from
the start that this pandemic has the potential to spike cases and
overload things. It also threatens to infect those same caregivers
we rely upon. So, wisely, a call was put out for volunteers with
experience to step up as backup workers.

Well, they got them! A ton of people, including many retired
workers, volunteered. The same goes for emergency crews, drivers,
police, and so on. A Facebook group was started where people can
volunteer to pick up groceries or do other helpful work for those
stuck in isolation and quarantine. It gained thousands of
volunteers in just hours.

The people here have a common goal. They have had a common message
of the seriousness of this situation from the start. People are
respectful, helpful to one another, and will make it through this
as well as possible.

The economic factors will obviously impact the nation for some
time to come, but there are many tools at the disposal of the
government. The crash in 2008 proved to the locals that they can
get through those tough times and flourish. The people are
prepared.

{{< figure src="https://blog.tomasino.org/images/covid-age.png" caption="Infection rates by age">}}

And finally, let me share this one last graph. I know there's
a lot of people still saying this is a condition which is worst on
the elderly, those with suppressed immune systems and those with
underlying conditions. Well, yes, but that's true of just about
every disease. That should not make you think you are safe because
you're young. Even if you ignore the absolutely essential fact
that you could infect those more susceptible than yourself, just
being young will not necessarily protect you.

Be safe, and wash your hands.


<!--  vim: set shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4 expandtab: -->
