---
layout: "post"
title: "Faith"
date: "2008-04-28"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
  - "Religion"
slug: "faith"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">Est autem fides sperandarum substantia
rerum, argumentum non apparentium. - Faith is the</span> hypostasis
<span style="font-style: italic;">of things hoped for; the proof of
things not seen.</span>

    - Hebrews 11:1 - Translation from the encyclical "Saved In Hope
(Spe Salvi)" by Pope Benedict XVI

Last night I read paragraph 7 of Pope Benedict's encyclical several
times, catching new insights each time and repeatedly kicking myself for
missing so much. People have called the current Pope bookish, but I
don't think that quite covers it. A year or so ago, I picked up a few of
his books written in his Cardinal days, one of which was [Many
Religions, One Covenant: Israel, the Church, and the World][]. I
remember clearly that night which I read the chapter titled, "The
Christian Faith and the Mystical Religions." Afterwards, putting the
book down, I felt a great connection to the Pope through his acceptance
and his support of a metaphysical study of God. I learned from that
short chapter that the Pope is more than bookish, he is deeply mystical
and philosophical.

In the above quote from "Spe Salvi," he chooses carefully to leave the
word "hypostasis" untranslated, commenting briefly on the trouble it has
caused biblical exegetes over the years. Indeed, in comparing the
translations of that same passage by Martin Luther and by Thomas
Aquinas, we see two very different interpretations. It was fitting that
he would choose such a contentious passage for the organizing statement
of his second encyclical. Not only does he bring it the fruit of his
years of study and inspection, but he draws out of it a wealth of
meaning beyond the points brought up by biblical scholars of the past.
His evaluations go beyond literal translations and comparisons of
grammatical structures. For Pope Benedict, the topic of Faith is not a
question of semantics, it's a question of metaphysics.

As I've mentioned previously, for St. Aquinas, the spiritual realm of
faith as a virtue was a habitual and abiding disposition, granted to us
through God's grace, and practiced through repetition and the power of
our will. Martin Luther, on the other hand, who was admittedly never a
big fan of the Letter to the Hebrews, read the words to say that faith
was "standing firm in what one hopes, being convinced of what one does
not see." (ibid.)

While both ideas are insightful and helpful towards spiritual
understanding, they are quite different. Two differing lessons taken
from the same sentence. What is it then, that makes up faith? Is it a
habitual disposition, granted by grace? Is it the will's power to stand
firm to things we hope? Benedict explains that they each have a part of
the truth.

Hope, as he explains, implies the desire for something to come. It is a
focus on the future. Obviously, it makes no sense for us to hope things
will happen in the past. Our hopes are undeniably focused forward, but
faith brings something more to the equation. "Hypostasis," a word
meaning "substance" and so much more, leads the translation to suggest
that faith is not a disposition of the subject, as Martin Luther
suggests, nor is it simply a property of our disposition as Aquinas put
forth. Faith is a wholly unique substance that replies to the concept of
hope and provides a proof for things which we cannot see.

Faith, then, is a response to hope--granted by Grace, yes--that allows
us to live our lives of hope today, rather than just for the future. We
do not close our eyes to the world around us and say things like,
"Judgement day will come, and God's plan will be completed, so we can
just sit on our butts until it happens." We understand through faith
that the things to come are already here, in part, through our faith.
Christians understand that it is not the possessions we have in this
profane life that define us, but the possessions we claim in our sacred
lives, reflections of that everlasting life to come. It sounds simple
when you word it that way, but metaphysically speaking, it is profound.

As I re-read this paragraph again and again, I get more and more out of
it. That is quite a legacy for a bookish mystic, after-all.

<span style="font-style: italic;">For us who contemplate these figures,
their way of acting and living is de facto a "proof" that the things to
come, the promise of Christ, are not only a reality that we await, but a
real presence: he is truly the "philosopher" and the "shepherd" who
shows us what life is and where it is to be found.</span>

    - Ibid.

  [Many Religions, One Covenant: Israel, the Church, and the World]: //www.amazon.com/Many-Religions-One-Covenant-Israel/dp/0898707536/?tag=tomablog-20
