---
date: 2019-08-12 22:10:58 +0000
title: "First day of school"
tags:
  - Iceland
---

Today was Wit's first day of school. In actuality it was a bit of an
orientation day where the kids and parents went to the school for an hour
to meet the teachers and get some basic information. That works for us
because we have absolutely no idea what we're doing.

When we first got the approval on our rental in Mosfellsbær, I rushed into
the municipality website to get him registered for school. Thankfully that
process was as easy as filling out a form online. I put in our kennitala,
or Icelandic social security numbers, and entered a few bits of extra
info. I was able to log in to the site using IceKey, which is a sort of
governmentally provided single-signon that connects back to your
kennitala.

I don't think I've covered just how awesome the kennitala is. I may have
mentioned before that when I got our phone service I went into the store,
gave my kennitala, and walked out minutes later with service. There was no
contract or payment needed. When I pay my rent I don't have to log into
a weird site or deal with 3rd party payment processors. All of it is
integrated. Once I got a bank account in Iceland (with Landsbankinn), my
kennitala was connected to the bank. Now people can send me bills directly
to my bank by using my ID number. It's not just for businesses either.
When our landlord's teenage cousin came by to help us carry in some heavy
furniture and I wanted to send him some money to thank him, I entered his
kennitala into the bank and did a transfer. Today I signed the electricity
into my name and guess what… I didn't have to log in or provide any
details to that company either. They knew I lived here because my
kennitala has me registered at this address. They'll bill me automatically
through my bank. Everything "just works" and it's incredible.

But enough about kennitala awesomeness. Lets get back to the school!

Wit will be attending a brand new school in Mosfellsbær called
Helgafellsskóli. It's actually not done being built yet, but the important
stuff is in place. Here's a picture of the exterior.

![Helgafellsskóli Exterior](//blog.tomasino.org/images/helgafellsskoli-exterior.jpg)

Like most architecture in Iceland there's a brutalist façade that belies
the warmth within. There's a clear metaphor for Icelanders in general
here, but we'll dive into that in another post. The principal focus of
exterior design is to stand up well against harsh weather, especially wind
and cold. There's also a distinct lack of lumber on the island, so it's
rare to see a lot of it used in external construction or even in framing
where concrete and steel can serve the purpose more thoroughly. The
results are pretty impressive once you live inside for a bit. While we
were in the school there were hordes of construction vehicles outside
continuing work on the landscaping, playgrounds, and neighboring apartment
buildings. We heard none of it. Not a single shake or beep.

It's the same in our apartment. Crews are actively building new buildings
on either side of ours, and landscaping is being done behind our bedroom
window about 5 meters away. Once we close the windows none of that exists.

![Helgafellsskóli Classroom](//blog.tomasino.org/images/helgafellsskoli-classroom.jpg)

Inside the school things are sparse in the Nordic style. Some of the
hallways made me think of eastern Europe, but being in the space in person
tells a different story. The building is warm and purpose-oriented. There
are thoughts to the placement of things. There were also warm smiles to
greet us in the form of the school principal and two of Wit's three
teachers.

His class is a bit over 30 students making up the whole of the second
grade. To facilitate this there is a head teacher and two assistant
teachers. On many days all three will be present, while on others only
two. They have a large room with many different areas set aside for
different types of activities.

Later this month they'll begin their swim lessons as well. His class will
go on Thursdays to the pool to practice their skills. This is a part of
public education when you live on an island. He's quite excited about it.

We'll hear more about the structure of his days in the weeks ahead, but
from what we could gather there are two recess times a day, lunch, snack,
and significant time between lessons to unwind. The days are shorter than
in the US system as well. Even so, Iceland is consistently ranked in the
top 5 education systems in the world. I'm eager to see it in action.

![Helgafellsskóli Bathroom](//blog.tomasino.org/images/helgafellsskoli-bathroom.jpg)

Wit's education will be in Icelandic. As of today he knows how to say
"yes, "no", and "my name is Wit." His teachers assure us that he'll learn
quickly, and I have little doubt. I tell him each night that the most
important thing is for him to be kind and patient. He's bright and his
charm will warm him to the other students. They'll help him with his
language skills as he will help them with their English.

Students in Iceland begin learning English in year 3, so the kids in his
class have not yet had any formal training in it. Still, both TV and
online gaming have had a big impact on them and they're sure to know
a decent number of words to get along.

![Helgafellsskóli Library](//blog.tomasino.org/images/helgafellsskoli-library.jpg)

The school may not be finished yet, but it's coming along quickly. The
full playground will open in another 3-4 weeks, but there are plenty of
areas already in use. Once things are all in place I'll be sure to take
more pictures. Today was overcast and a little rainy which seems to add to
the gloomy photos. It really is charming.

It's also across the street. Did I mention that before? Right now we have
to walk all the way around the block to get to the entrance due to the
construction but that will change in the months ahead. Wit will be able to
cross the street and go right in. It won't be long before he's off to and
from school without any help.

The freedom of movement for kids is definitely a shock here. I've seen
kids of 8 riding the bus alone. Hordes of littler ones wander down the
streets in play together. It is, honestly, like the way things used to be
in the US before helicopter parenting took over. I'm so glad we can offer
him this experience. In return, maybe he'll help us with our Icelandic.

<!--  vim: set shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4 expandtab: -->
