---
date: 2024-12-23 22:09:40 +0000
title: "Five Stars"
og_image: "/images/5-stars.jpg"
tags:
  - criticism
  - film
  - books
  - reviews
---

{{< figure src="https://blog.tomasino.org/images/5-stars.jpg" caption="Photo by Diane Helentjaris (https://unsplash.com/@dhelentjaris)" >}}

In the late 90s I had a website called "A Film A Day" where I tried to review
365 films in a year. It ran for two full years and I achieved my goal both
times. Sadly, it expired and it was not indexed by the [Wayback
Machine](http://web.archive.org/) so it's lost to time. It is one of my two
great data losses and I'm still sad about it.

On the website, every one of my film reviews was a 5-star review. The goal of
the review text was to inform the reader how they should prepare, mentally and
physically, so as to enjoy a 5-star experience from the film. Should you watch
something else first? Do you need extra snacks? Should this only be seen with
close friends while very, very drunk? Do you need to imagine you're a knight
from medieval Europe who has stumbled through time into the theater and are
witnessing what can only be a wizard's masquerade?

Earlier tonight I was discussing a critic review of a holiday concert here in
Iceland. The reviewer lambasted the concert just as they had done to several
other high profile ones recently. In looking a bit deeper, it seems the general
take that can be expected.

Learning that wasn't a surprise. It happens a lot, not just in professional
circles. It's easy to find something to criticize even if it's not objectively
real. There's enough subjective moments of anything that they are open doorways
to a scathing critique. Is the criticism even something the author believes, or
might this be an easy way to maintain authority in a cultural space? Might this
be a learned behavior from a career that rewards being loud? Whatever the
impetus, I'll call it what it is: lazy.

Don't tell me why this Star Wars show fails to live up to the expectations of
your deified childhood experience. Tell me how to recreate that experience when
I go see it. I challenge you as one who has done it. Don't cop out and claim the
high ground of taste. Use that sensitivity, that finely tuned instrument, and
direct the rest of us how to maximize our experiences.

Is this film intended to make me feel sad, to fall in love, to forget my feet
are on the ground? Surely your exceptional background in the subject matter
makes you more equipped than anyone to be a guide on that journey. So do it.

We are faced with a historically inconceivable amount of suffering in our lives
thanks to the torrent of information reaching us every moment. Our cultivated
spaces for art and entertainment are the products of so much human effort to
climb out of that mire and share a connection with one another. If you stand in
the way of that by critiquing that effort without providing us a better means to
appreciate it you are subtracting from the human experience.

I give that two thumbs down.


<!--  vim: set shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4 expandtab: -->
