---
date: 2019-12-15 17:15:40 +0000
title: "Food in Iceland"
tags:
  - Iceland
  - Food
---

Iceland has so many wonderful things to offer, from an amazing
public education system to lush natural beauty. It also has quite
a few unique delicacies that you absolutely must try if you visit.
Being the two staple products, the seafood is naturally excellent
and you can find a number of tasty lamb dishes all around the
country. Let's look at a few of our family favorites!

{{< figure src="/images/pylsa.jpg" caption="Pylsa með öllu (Icelandic Hot Dog with everything) ">}}

I would be remiss to begin with anything but the famous _pylsa_,
or Icelandic hot dog. These gems are not your typical ballpark
weiner, but are in fact a perfect blend of beef, lamb, and pork
with a semi-crunchy casing. They're usually boiled, but you can
find them grilled as well.

Hot dog stands can be found all over, even in gas stations, and
they're all quite good. One [famous hot dog
stand](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%C3%A6jarins_Beztu_Pylsur)
is downtown in Reykjavík, near Harpa concert hall. It can boast US
presidents as customers! Seriously, these are good dogs.

Don't just get them with the typical American toppings, though.
Here you want to try them _með öllu_, or "with everything".
Everything in this case consists of crunchy onions and raw onions,
a special pylsa mustard, remoulade, and yes, ketchup. They are
just divine.

{{< figure src="/images/plokkfiskur-cafe-loki.jpg" caption="Plokkfiskur at Cafe Loki">}}

Icelanders eat a lot of fish and potatoes, not necessarily
together. But this dish, _plokkfiskur_, is a blend of both. It's
a traditional family meal that uses up leftovers that have been
cooked earlier in the week. Of course, you can just make it for
its own sake if you're anything like me and absolutely in love
with the hearty warmth it fills you with.

The picture above is the plokkfiskur available at [Café
Loki](https://loki.is/). This restaurant is famous for serving
traditional Icelandic fare. If you stop by I recommend the pickled
herring and the rye bread ice cream. Delicious!

But lets go back to the plokkfiskur for a minute. The meal is
pretty simple: about half is white fish, often haddock, and the
other half is boiled potatoes. These are mashed and cooked
together with a creamy sauce made of milk & butter, and then
everything is seasoned with a liberal amount (read ALL) of white
pepper. Some recipes will add in cheese or sprinkle it on top and
bake the dish to give it that lovely crust.

Like Italian families and their sauce recipes, plokkfiskur has
a lot of variety based on how each person's grandmother made it.
That made looking up recipes a little bit tricky at first.
Deciding where to start took some navigating, but I decided to
keep it simple.

{{< figure src="/images/making-plokkfiskur.jpg" caption="Making Plokkfiskur">}}

I've made my own plokkfiskur a handful of times now and have begun
tweaking it to my own family's preferences. They like a bit more
potato than fish and our seasoning mix has evolved. We have also
decided that our homemade dish can only be served with a specific
brand of rye bread. Anything less is just not worth it.

{{< figure src="/images/rye-bread.jpg" caption="Icelandic Rye Bread">}}

"Rye Bread?" you may be asking yourself. Well, whatever you're
imagining, it's not that. The rye bread here has a very
interesting history going back to the time of Danish rule when
trade to Iceland was minimal. Getting good grain here was very
difficult. Instead, Denmark sent its surplus of rye and Icelanders
just had to make the best of it. What they created was as unique
as the landscape.

{{< figure src="/images/buttered-rye-bread.jpg" caption="Buttered Rye Bread">}}

Icelandic rye bread is baked in the earth near hot springs where
it bakes for 24 hours. The result is dense and moist and nearly
a cake. When you spread the local butter on it and take a bite, be
careful. You can finish that whole loaf before you know it.

Now I could link my favorite rye bread brand here and tell you,
but I already have a hard enough time getting it at the grocery
store. It sells out so fast!

If you want to learn more about cool Icelandic dishes that came
about because of the poverty and isolation of the country, [read
about
laufabrauð](https://whydyoueatthat.wordpress.com/2011/12/01/day-1-laufabraud/).

{{< figure src="/images/crepes.jpg" caption="Crepes">}}

The pancakes in Scandinavia are basically crepes. They're these
thin bits of deliciousness that dissolves on your tongue. Many of
the ice cream shops also sell sweet and savory crepes. Now I'm
craving one with Nutella. See what you've done?

{{< figure src="/images/skyr.jpg" caption="Skyr">}}

Also on the topic of treats, I can't forget to mention skyr. This
has finally made its way to the US thanks to Siggi's brand. You
can probably find it in your yogurt isle.

Skyr is less sweet than yogurt, even less-so than greek yogurt.
It's also extremely thick and hearty. It's packed full of protein
and will kill those hunger pangs quickly. One can imagine it was
useful here in the old days.

Also, fun-fact, skyr is technically a cheese!

{{< figure src="/images/fish.jpg" caption="Red Breaded Fish">}}

There's so many amazing foods here that we're still exploring.
I've yet to try eating the boiled lamb head, and I haven't found
a good place to try _Slátur_, blood pudding. The rotted shark is
pretty gross, but the dried fish is quite tasty with butter.

We are making our way through the things we see in the grocery
store and making note of the blind successes. The picture above is
one of those. It's a rather inexpensive frozen fish with some sort
of reddish breading. The kid likes it, and with a bit of pítusósa
on top, we do too. (If any Icelanders are reading this and can
tell me exactly what it's called I'd appreciate it.)

In many ways the fare here reminds me most of Tuscany. The focus
on making simple things excellent is clear. Modern day Iceland
does have some very fancy places to try out high-end cuisine, but
I wouldn't dismiss the simple ones.
