---
title: "Gicelemû'kaong"
date: "2005-08-22"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "gicelemukaong"
---

The Delaware – or, as they called themselves, the Lenape – Indians held
a celebration every year in the Autumn after the harvest called the "New
Year Big House Ceremony." Deep in the forest, they would construct a
large rectangular building with twelve poles carved into the twelve
faces of their creator, Gicelemû'kaong. This building represented the
universe to the Lenape, as a sacred space symbolizing the vast
everything they understood to surround them. In this space, they would
gather in their best clothes and pray together to the creator to bless
them and their families if that should be his wish.

To any foreigner listening to these prayers, should he understand their
language, he would hear words very similar to those of the
Judeo-Christian rites. They pray to the will of an all-powerful creator
whom they hope to join in the afterlife in the spirit-world, should
their actions on this Earth dictate them worthy. They acknowledge the
powers of the Earth and the spirits as being granted by the single
creator, and part of his will. Even their talks of morality seem word
for word.

And so, in this hut in the middle of the forest, buried amongst the
hills and valleys of Northeastern America, this great culture built
their churches as a gateway to the Sacred truth, just as people around
the world build their own churches for the same purpose. We all need our
sacred spaces, whether they be towers or huts, or quiet apartments in
bustling cities. Like all symbols, we find a connection to something
greater; perhaps a metaphor for that greater power.

Several nights ago, I dreamt of a vivid house, gothic architecture with
baroque scroll-work on the wooden door frames. I spent a long time in
the house that night, learning all the secret passages and hidden
creaks. Unlike most of my pleasant dreams, the memories stayed around
with me of this old house. I could smell the dust in the air, the wavy
way the light passed through the old deformed glass, the cool touch of
the bare wood against my feet, and the warmth of the evening light
across my face.

I kept thinking about the house over the last few days, exploring it
with my mind on long drives, or while I daydream. I search through each
of the rooms in turn, leaving no shelf unbrushed, no crack unnoticed.
Only recently, I've begun to start adding things, flowers, furniture,
etc. I am fixing it up like an old house waiting for my attention. I
take my time with it, carefully paying attention to each room. And now,
after it is becoming a regular place for my thoughts, I've begun to file
them away. I place those memories of childhood sports into the spare
bedroom closet, organizing them by year and by sport. My ex-girlfriends
have shelf space in the great foyer, each with a subtle shrine. My
seventh grade math class lives in a shoebox beside the exit to the
roof-garden, next to my cutting shears.

A place for each thought, and each thought in its place. My mind is
slowly structuring itself, like a good spring cleaning. I don't know
where the motivation came from, but it feels right. The house is more
than a way to keep my thoughts in place, though. It is a sacred thing,
like my meditations feel. When I am there, I am in prayer, supplication,
and prostration. It is a good place for me.
