---
layout: "post"
title: "IMA Journal - Louisa Fletcher"
date: "2009-06-19"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Writing"
slug: "ima-journal-louisa-fletcher"
---

<span style="font-style:italic;">When I lived in Indiana, one semester
at [IUPUI][] I had a four hour break between classes on Tuesdays. Back
then, the [Indianapolis Museum of Art][] was free, so I would spend my
afternoons there with a pencil and a [Moleskine][]. I would sit for a
few hours in front of one of the paintings and let my mind wander in it
for a while. Then I would take my notebook and write a quick story,
scene, narrative, or stream-of-consciousness from deep inside. This is
one of those journals.</span>

![Mary Shepard Greene Blumenschein 'Louisa Fletcher', 1912][]

Mary Shepard Greene Blumenschein - Louisa Fletcher, 1912

She stepped back against the curtained wall for added support. Her hands
were trembling slightly still from the excitement of it all. He was
handsome, yes, but he was something more. He engaged her. He was direct.
She was an equal.

His eyes spoke of a hidden power, like a wild lion buried under his
gentlemen demure. She wanted him, that was no doubt, but she wanted
more. She wanted him to release that power on her, to be controlled or
uncontrolled, to be an animal.

Thoughts came rushing in such a torrent of feeling that her breath began
to tremble. She beamed wild eyes across the room at the back of his
head, begging in her mind that he would turn around and acknowledge her
once again. Her hand slid along the curtain behind her and a sensual
smile crept to her lips. She would catch him. It was one predator to
another.

As he slowly turned to look once more in her direction, her heart sighed
through her eyes with romance and suspense. She <span
style="font-style:italic">would</span> have him.

  [IUPUI]: //www.iupui.edu
  [Indianapolis Museum of Art]: //www.imamuseum.org/
  [Moleskine]: //www.moleskine.com
  [Mary Shepard Greene Blumenschein 'Louisa Fletcher', 1912]: //blog.tomasino.org/images/louisa_fletcher.jpg
