---
title: "Indivisible"
date: "2010-05-02"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Christianity"
  - "Introspective"
  - "Sleep"
slug: "indivisible"
---

St. Augustine probably did more good than bad with his writing, but it
doesn't help me be any less frustrated. City of God, City of Man, two
worlds which collide at an invisible line between the real and the
unreal. The concept wasn't his, but I still blame him for the popularity
in common thought. Without Augustine, would we really have this
all-pervasive gnostic sense about our own selves? Would we really see
the spirit and the body as two separate entities? How different would
our actions be if we never turned over the idea, if instead we knew
ourselves as a whole, indivisible and inseparable from the here and now.

That's the biggest problem I have with gnostic ideas. It's not that
there isn't anything to be learned by classifying and delineating, but
when we attribute individual value and stop seeing our bodies as part of
our souls and vice versa, we stop seeing the entire person. More than
that, we stop seeing each other.

There is no path to God through the soul alone. You can't shed this
flesh and ride your spirit alone up to the heavens. The body is not an
anchor weighing you down. It is not a prison. All these ideas, they make
us see ourselves in such a dark way, as if the only thing of worth were
buried beneath a dirty mask. It's a wonder how people survived with
those thoughts at all!

Theology is a little beyond me tonight. It's late and I'm only up
because of an ill-advised nap this afternoon. In a few minutes I'll be
back in bed letting my slumbering mind take me on silly journeys where
my cat is the conductor of an illegal space-train. I guess I just needed
to get that thought out of my head.
