---
layout: "post"
title: "Love"
date: "2010-07-05"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Christianity"
  - "Discernment"
  - "Introspective"
  - "Religion"
slug: "love"
---

*There are so many kinds of love. There's the love of pets and the love
for them, the love of a favorite TV show about to begin its series
finale, the love of your favorite baseball team when they're down by one
in the bottom of the ninth. There is the love of family and of friends,
and the love of people you met for five minutes in an office years ago
but have never left your memory. There's also a love of each and every
day, every moment ticking away on the clock. A love of time, of place,
and of being.*

*Deus caritas est. (God is love)*

*- 1 John 4:16*

Theologians talk about <span
style="font-style: italic;">[caritas][]</span>, or <span
style="font-style: italic;">[agapē][]</span>, when they talk about God's
love for us. It's an overwhelming, pure, unlimited kindness that goes
beyond romance or want or even need. It is what first Corinthians talks
about when it says it isn't boastful, it isn't proud. It's the type of
love, in particular, that religious are to seek in their relationships
with, well, everyone.

It's still hard for me to find that type of love, even (or especially)
in relationships I've had for a long time. Maybe that makes it harder,
though. When I have a certain type of love for someone already, it is so
much more difficult to shift that into caritas, into charity. Romantic
love, especially, screams at me saying that it is more important, or
deeper than charity, that it deserves to be respected and explored. I
know in my mind that's not all true, that it gets a part of its strength
from its self-serving nature. Still, the difficulty remains. It's a
struggle I don't foresee becoming any easier with time.

![ Pablo Picasso - Science and Charity (1897)](//blog.tomasino.org/images/science-and-charity.jpg)

It may not be easy, but when it comes I feel it more strongly than
anything else. I know that if any of my tiny loves compare to it, it is
only as a shadow cast along a wall in passing. God's love is enormous
and subtle, and it provokes such awe and clarity that it wakes us up
from our petty dreams to point us in a direction and say with the clear
clarion only available to angels, "Here it is! Here I am!"

Still, even with the experience in my pocket, there are days when I fall
for the old habits. I want love, not just to love. It's inescapable,
even if it weren't broadcast across our culture in blazing lights. That
want is human as well, and I don't think I can necessarily call it
wrong. Though the selfless love may be altruistic and divine, and thus
qualitatively better, that doesn't diminish the greatness that comes
from being loved by another person. Just because one thing is infinitely
good, infinity minus one is still increasing without bounds. (There's a
cardinality vs. cardinals joke in there somewhere, but my math nerd
skills aren't up to it)

I know what I should do. I know that I need to bridge those gaps and put
things in the right perspective. Times will come in the future where
I'll experience this same dilemma and I should put in the practice now
at developing those relationships into a love that is healthy for
celibacy. Based on what I'm experiencing so far, I'd say it's a slow
process.

Of course, I can't turn a blind eye to romantic relationships. Even
though it's not the path I'm headed down, I already find myself
counseling other people on theirs. I typically take the position of
offering up my mistakes as a guide for things they might want to avoid,
but that's only really appropriate for surface level advice. So many
friends are coming to me these days with worries about finding a love in
which to share their life. I guess with all of us hitting our 30s,
they're beginning to wonder why life hasn't fallen into place like they
expected. But that's the key, isn't it? Life is never what we expected.
How many of us can look back at our 8th grade yearbook, slide our finger
down to the "What do you want to do when you grow up?" line, read off
our grand plans and say honestly, "Yup, I nailed it." How many of us
planned out our futures when we left for college? How many of us are
even in the same career as when we began? These are just the mechanical
things of the day to day. They are jobs, homes, cars. How much more
complex and unpredictable is love!

Even though it's unpredictable, and life takes us on twists, that
doesn't help people who feel left behind, who feel alone. I want to say,
"of course you'll find someone!" I want to tell them that it will work
out better than they could have planned, but that's not the way of life,
and it's not the way of God. He challenges us at every turn. The better
we are at things, the more skilled or talented, the more the challenges
become. He never abandons us, but he doesn't make it easy.

It's tempting to take a break from your life and look to the side, at
the lives of others passing by like cars on a highway. It's tempting to
look and say, "look how easy they have it! They're in the carpool lane
and it's moving so quick." We so rarely see their challenges, though. We
trick ourselves into simple habits, like pretending that if we could
only have this one thing, all of life would be okay. That's never the
case, though, is it?

More often than not, I think my friends will find the love they're
looking for. It might happen soon, or not for many years. Most will find
it. There is another group, though, who may not. That's the big
conspiracy of our modern world. That's the horror movie too scary for
the big screen. What happens to the people who never find a romance to
last the rest of their lives?

They live and love anyway.

That's the big secret. God doesn't call us all to married life! Just as
he doesn't call everyone to religious life, just as he doesn't give us
all the same gifts and passions. And that's okay.

I know we all want it, but the wanting isn't love in itself. The wanting
is just the self crying out at the outrage of not having what others
have. There is still love available for everyone, even if it isn't
romantic love. Don't be fooled into thinking it's anything less than
romance, either. It is far more grace-filled and awe-inspiring. It is
the love that creates worlds!

Whether you're one of those people who has already found your special
love, one who is still looking and will discover it soon, or one of us
who will live by the love of charity and fill your life with the
friendship of many, God's love is there for every single person, without
exception. It's even there for us screw-ups who misuse it, abuse it, and
fail to spot it when we should be on our knees thanking heaven. It's
there for sinners and saints alike.

*Let all that you do be done in love.*

*- 1 Corinthians 16:14*

  [caritas]: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charity_(virtue)
  [agapē]: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agap%C4%93
