---
title: "Madam Camus and the art of red bedrooms"
date: "2004-12-02"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "madam-camus-and-the-art-of-red-bedrooms"
---

_From an old journal_

{{< figure src="/images/camus.jpg" alt="Madam Camus" >}}

In a little bit of time, I'll have finished my undergraduate degree and
with it, all of the expectations of schooling anyone has ever had for
me. In essence, this means I will be free to do whatever I please
without any pressure from family or friends. Of course, that isn't
completely accurate. I'm a smart guy, I've done well here, and so people
do expect me to go to graduate school. It's not like I don't want to,
either. I think graduate school could be really fun and give me a lot of
time to do projects I would like to do. I have scripts I'd like to
write. I'd like to work on publication in some academic journals. I'd
like to do all those things that make you respectable in the academic
community. All of that really intrigues me.

So why am I bitching about where I am going to be next. Why do I still
feel the itch to move on if I'm happy here. Well, happy isn't the best
word. I'm satisfied here, certainly. I can breathe a bit. Life isn't too
fast like in other places. I am no overwhelmed by anything at the
moment. In fact, I'm doing better than a lot of people. But satisfaction
does not make me want to stay. I fear that even if I were incredibly
satisfied by what I was doing I would still feel the urge to go.

I am a Gypsy. I have Romani blood coursing through my veins and I've
given a lot of thought to what that means for me. I'm a very spiritual
person and I take into consideration mystical meanings and consequences
for nearly everything I come into touch with. Speaking along these terms
for that blood I spoke of, I feel that it is inherent in me spiritually
as well as genetically to desire a nomadic existence. We are creatures
of tendency and routine. When we do something often, it becomes
ingrained with us us. If it is something important to our survival, that
imprint is often passed to our children and to their children. It
becomes part of the living spirit of a people to follow these methods.
It could be theorized it may have some part in evolution as well, but
the science of a thing is less important to me than the spirit of it. I
can explain the spirit, justify it in my mind, without expensive
equipment and years of research. So when I say that I am a Gypsy, I
don't mean that as a simple metaphor.

Josh has his theories on people, their paths and success in life. It's
not an uncommon view, that we each have a path we should be on, and if
we work along that path, or near it, we will be happier/do better/be
successful/be awesome. He thinks my path is a very random one, where I
made odd decisions and move from place to place all the time. I'm
inclined to agree. I am not happy "here". I don't mean Indiana. I'm just
not happy where I am. I can be for a little while, but I need to move
on. Can I justify graduate school to myself as moving on? Maybe for a
few weeks I'll be able to, but certainly not for the entire year and a
half. So what after that? Will I fold and move to Alaska?

My friends have left me a lot of great responses on my last journal
entry about this very topic. All of them seem to feel it's most
important to do what makes me happiest, which I can't argue with. Does
the adage apply to me, though? Does it apply to a life of constant
change? It's hard to justify throwing away good opportunities over and
over again to jump off a cliff.

But that is me. That is what I do. I jump again and again, even when I
try hard not to.

I remember years ago, I was in a club, Haven, or Asylum, or one of those
Philly clubs that was around briefly that I used to hit pretty often. I
ran into a friend there I hadn't seen in a long time. She and I kept
looking at each other all night from far away. We looked so familiar to
each other, but when you haven't seen someone in a long time, seeing
them in a completely new setting makes it difficult to put together
faces and names. Towards the end of the night, she came over to me. I
was sitting on a red velvet couch in this heavily smokey red room
trimmed by chrome, mirrors and hanging strips of black velvet. It was
the inspiration, decor-wise, for my bedroom. She stood near me for a
minute and then she sat down near me in a chair. She started fanning
herself with this advertisement for a local DJ. Her dress was long, a
style which I enjoyed that lasted only a month or so at the clubs. She
looked away from me deliberately, perhaps waiting for me to recognize
her. I didn't, of course. My memory was terrible even then. She talked
to me later that night as we were both leaving. She said she was scared
to talk to me because she wasn't sure I was there. In the red light at
the club, she said I tended to fade into the light a bit too much. She
was on drugs, of course, but it made me smile.

That moment we shared was enough for me to trigger a desire. I got a
feeling in my head, an itch, an opportunity. We drove to New York that
night. Her car. Her room was bathed in red too. That's when I first
discovered that a woman's skin is most beautiful in red light.

It's hard to know what the right thing is when the right thing for so
many people is different than yours. My life is a string of random
incidents, events strewn together haphazardly. I see each moment like an
impressionists painting, more the feeling of the moment than the moment
itself. It wears on me. "It wears, sir, as it grows."
