---
title: "Madamoiselle Dobigny"
date: "2004-12-01"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "madamoiselle-dobigny"
---

_From an old journal_

{{< figure src="/images/dobigny.jpg" alt="Madamoiselle Dobigny" >}}

I am staring out of my own portrait these days. My world is becoming so
saturated with the same things day in and day out that I'm ready to
burst. It is new media, it is working on projects I don't feel more than
a passing interest in, it is surrounding myself by people whose
interests fulfil only one of my own. Most of all, it is this place.

I hate being stagnant more than almost anything else. It get this itch,
perhaps my gypsy itch, that propels me to leave, to walk away and change
to a new life. Every day it gets harder. Every day I feel like I've sunk
into the mud a bit more.

So now I am looking beyond. Not in the excited way of expectation. Not
in the interested way of philosophy. I'm looking ahead in the yearning
way, the way that nearly brings me to tears, the way that is so
frustrated, so amazingly antagonized that I can do nothing but sit and
stare. It's like I've already given up.

Tonight I was quiet. Less talkative than normal. I was made to notice
because of what a friend of mine told me. I can't keep up the energy to
talk most of the time. I am way too tired. Like now. I am exhausted,
utterly, waiting for something to change. Bed tonight will bring no
comfort in the grand scheme of my life, but at least I won't be yawning.

Someone tell me why I didn't study religion and mysticism in college?
Someone tell me why I, a person who values his individuality, his
freedoms, and his sense of being alone more than anything... someone
tell me why I feel like I want someone to lay against at night. It
doesn't make sense. People never do.
