---
title: "Mariette in Ecstasy"
date: "2009-05-04"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Christianity"
  - "Fiction"
  - "Religion"
  - "Writing"
slug: "mariette-in-ecstasy"
---

![Mariette in Ecstasy][]

This little book, by Ron Hansen, is a story of a small community of
cloistered nuns during the early 1900s who are about to face their
greatest challenge. Their typically quiet, simple lives are turned
upside down when a young novice, Mariette, joins them and claims to have
had a vision of Jesus. To some she seems a saint growing before their
eyes, to others she is a deceitful flirt who takes pleasure in the
attention her holiness garners. Which side of her do you see as you read
the story? That is the question the author leaves his readers.

I first heard about this book when I read a [blog post][] on [A Nun's
Life][] about a local theater group who performed the book as a play. It
sounded interesting, so I jumped on Amazon immediately to buy a copy. I
was a little upset they had no Kindle version, but I made due with the
paperback. Besides, now I have a book to give away to someone else who
wants to read it. Maybe [Kenn][].

Now before I begin critiquing the book, let me first say that it was a
wonderful story. The characters had a life to them and there was an
element of truth to both points of view. Mr. Hansen seems to have a
wonderful writing talent and some of his imagery was almost poignant.
All-in-all, the book was a great success, and I'm glad I read it.

There were, however, a few things that bothered me a great deal. The
first is a general complaint about a lot of modern writers I've read
recently. Several times throughout this book, Mr. Hansen chose to
describe a scene and create a sense of emotion by the way his sentences
were displayed rather than with their content. I accept that sentence
structure can play an important role in the pacing of the story, but
taken to this extreme it reminded me of a similar practice in Cormac
McCarthy's <span style="text-decoration: underline;">The Road</span>.
With the sentences written in near bullet-points, the stacatto rhythm
was meant to convey a sense of silence, tranquility, and serenity, but
with an undercurrent of tension. It does accomplish its task, but the
cost to me as a reader is huge. The writing style also serves to take me
completely out of the story, becoming more aware of the words on the
page and less aware of the scene as a whole. It leaves me wondering why
these authors, who are incredibly talented and can write amazing
descriptive scenery, are flocking towards tricks of formatting. More
than anything, I feel as if the style robbed me of a great wealth of
description. Even now, after having read the book, while i can picture a
few main characters and a room or two, I'm at a general loss for what
the rest of the world looks like. While the moral and religious
conflicts may stick with me for a time, I'm certain that I will have
soon forgotten any imagery herein.

Finally, I must protest about the ending. Perhaps it is the American in
me, but I wanted more resolution. I understand that the book had to keep
things up in the air, and I'm fine with that, but the way the ending
played out seemed less to bring the tension to a head than it did to
deflate it and fizzle away. I'll leave my complaint on this point with
that statement. Anything more may spoil the reading experience for
others.

So, in closing, I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the
subject matter. If you're not enticed by the wonders of cloistered life
or the mystery of a religious calling, or if you think a story about a
nun who may or may not have had a visitation from Christ is not very
interesting, you'll want to pass this one by. Enjoy!

[Amazon Link][]

  [Mariette in Ecstasy]: https://blog.tomasino.org/images/mariette_in_ecstasy.jpg
  [blog post]: https://web.archive.org/web/20110816061731/https://anunslife.org/2009/03/29/mariette-in-ecstasy-at-lifeline-theatre/
  [A Nun's Life]: https://anunslife.org/
  [Kenn]: https://musing.kennbivins.com/
  [Amazon Link]: https://www.amazon.com/Mariette-Ecstasy-Ron-Hansen/dp/0060981180/?tag=tomablog-20
