---
title: "Mars"
date: "2012-08-06"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
  - "Natural World"
  - "Travel"
slug: "mars"
---

![Mars Science Laboratory 'Curiosity' Landing Image][]

Last night at exactly 5:14:39 UTC, the latest NASA project touched down
on the surface of Mars. The Curiosity rover is a mobile science lab that
will travel the planet looking for signs of previous life. It's a big
mission and has already begun to capture the imagination of the world.

If we (notice how I include myself in this effort) manage to find
evidence of extraterrestrial life, it will represent the single greatest
scientific discovery in the history of mankind. There's no exaggeration
there. It will be the biggest news ever. We're not talking about
intelligent life, here, obviously. They're not even looking for living
things themselves yet. This search is all about finding the
building-blocks that support life. That, if found, will be enough to
warrant this a huge success.

But lets take a moment to allow ourselves to wonder, to dream, and to be
inspired. It's not a popular thing these days when we celebrate cynicism
and doubt, but I guarantee it won't hurt. What would tomorrow feel like
if we knew, not just suspected, that we weren't the only life in the
solar system, let alone the universe. For some, I imagine, it will bring
a moment of profound perspective, much like the [Total Perspective
Vortex of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy][]. For others it will
probably be a platform for pride, obviously (to them) verifying whatever
belief they espouse. For all, it will bring a change; and, I'd hope, it
will bring us together.

In the meantime, I want to congratulate NASA and thank them. It gives me
incredible consolation to remember that despite our problems in this
country and in this world, we can bring together the amazing talents and
minds of that team and give them the necessary resources to work
wonders. We need people like that. We need faith that such things can
happen. And we need their contributions if we are ever to hope to spread
our wings beyond this tiny blue dot.

  [Mars Science Laboratory 'Curiosity' Landing Image]: https://blog.tomasino.org/images/curiosity-landing.jpg
  [Total Perspective Vortex of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_in_The_Hitchhiker%27s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy#Total_Perspective_Vortex
    "Total Perspective Vortex"
