---
title: "Moving to Iceland"
date: "2013-01-03"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Natural World"
  - Travel
  - Iceland
slug: "moving-to-iceland"
---

![Icelandic Flag][]

I haven't written in a little while, so I thought it would be a good
opportunity to give some background on things that have happened, and
where I would like to see life going for a while ahead. First of all, I
met a wonderful woman shortly after leaving the Jesuits, and we've had a
really amazing adventure in the short time we've been together. We got
engaged in Florence in the Bobali Gardens. We bought a house in Bucks
County, PA, right on the historic Delaware Canal. We also had a baby!
His name is Wit, and he's just as fantastic as I could have ever hoped.

That's a lot for a year and change, and we're looking forward to a
little bit of quiet in the time ahead. At least, we don't want to try to
squeeze any more giant life changes in this year, if we can avoid it. I
think out next big journey won't happen for another 4-5 years, in fact.

You see, we really want to move to Iceland.

It's not as simple as it sounds. Well, I'm not sure you were thinking it
was simple at all, actually... but I was at first. People talk about
leaving the country all the time, but it's really a complicated thing to
do. Perhaps going to Canada isn't as bad, but I'm not sure. I didn't
really want to go to Canada, so I haven't looked into it. Iceland is
going to be a chore, but hopefully worth all the time and effort.

I'm going to try to share our experiences in the expatriate path here on
my blog. Maybe someone else will find it helpful in the future. If not,
it'll make a good story to look back on, I'm sure. So, without further
ado...

The first part of my plan involves becoming an Italian citizen. You see,
Italy has this really amazing thing called [Jure Sanguinis][] that
allows you to get dual citizenship if you can trace your ancestry back
in a certain way. There's some fairly complex rules to it, but in brief
it says that if your immigrant ancestor had kids before he or she became
an American citizen, then the kids were technically born as Italian
citizens (according to Italy), and you are eligible to claim Italian
citizenship as their descendant. Did that make sense? If not, pop over
to the link and read all about it.

It works out for me very well since my great-grandpa came over to this
country and had my grandmother before he became naturalized. She passed
the Italian-ness on to my dad, and thus to me. Now, all I have to do is
get 10 billion documents, get them signed, translated, apostille's
attached (kind of an international notorization), and take everything to
the Italian consulate. Then, in another year or so when I can finally
get an appointment, I can theoretically file for Italian citizenship.
Once that goes through, I can get an Italian passport, a briefcase full
of foreign currency and pretend I'm a secret agent. Or at least, I can
get through European Customs a lot faster.

What it means for Iceland is that I'll be a member of the European
Economic Area and a Schengen state, which means I can move there without
having to have a job first and apply for a special visa. In fact, once I
get a job there, I don't need to do any really special paperwork at all.
I just prove residency and BLAM! I'm done! (Not really, but compared to
moving as a US citizen, it feels like it)

So, that's the current plan. I'd love to have my Italian citizenship for
more than just moving to Iceland, but what a great benefit it will
bring. We're hoping we can figure out a method of moving before Wit
enters school. We'll see how things develop, though. I've got a long
history of big plans that go completely awry.

  [Icelandic Flag]: https://blog.tomasino.org/images/icelandic-flag.jpg
  [Jure Sanguinis]: https://www.expatsinitaly.com/node/136
