---
layout: "post"
title: "NaNoWriMo"
date: "2008-10-14"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Writing"
slug: "nanowrimo"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">To achieve great things, two things
are needed: a plan, and not quite enough time.</span>

    - Leonard Bernstein

Every year for the past ten years I've toyed with the idea of finishing
my novel. My poor plot outline has changed so many times, been scraped
and begun anew, that I never seemed to be making any forward progress.
My characters gained a little more depth, my world became a little more
colorful and full of history, but the story always hovered around
chapter one.

I sat down and wrote out chapter one a few times, sharing it with a few
people, taking criticism and editing away. My biggest problem was that
I'm not a from-the-hip author. I need planning, careful outlining,
character sketches and biographies, country histories and cultural
overviews. I need to know the staple products in the region and justify
the existence of rivers with the rainfall and terrain in the area. I
need to draw up charts of flood cycles, crop infestations, wind
directions and migratory patterns. I need to know everything before I
can do anything.

And so for the past ten years I've struggled to get anywhere in my novel
because I can't get everywhere. This year, though, I'm done. My outline
is nearing completion and my world is in a clear enough state that I'm
comfortable guessing my way through the rest. I know that the natives of
the Monastiraki mountain range subside on staple crops of olives and
wheat, and use the two together in a olive liquor that will take the
hair off an ox. And I know about the various tides of the Ioma river
that spans a distance that would run from Moscow to Johanasburg. All of
this I know and it will have to be enough.

Next month is the tenth anniversary of [NaNoWriMo][]. That's the
National Novel Writing Month, for those not in the know. The goal of the
event is to write 50,000 words in 30 days. That's 1667 words a day, or
about 3 pages in Word. The timeline is agressive because that's what
authors really need. I know as well as the next writer how easy it is to
get wrapped up in editing as you go. You write a sentence, then rewrite
it for hours until it's perfect. With NaNoWriMo, that's just not an
option.

No time for distractions, for checking e-mail, reading blogs, learning
to speak Portugese, or how to tame wild ferrets. No time for
procrastination, saying, "I'll work on this tomorrow, or this weekend."
No time for excuses.

50,000 words won't finish my book. It will get me a good chunk of the
way there, though, and that's what's important. Whether I finish or not,
at the end of November, I'll have crossed that difficult chapter two
mark and I wont look back.

If any other aspiring authors are out there and want to join me, you can
add me as a buddy on the NaNoWriMo site. My username is "jamestomasino".
Good luck, and pray for me!

  [NaNoWriMo]: //www.nanowrimo.org
