---
date: 2020-02-11 11:28:11 +0000
title: "Now is the winter of our discontent"
tags:
  - Iceland
  - Weather
  - Snow
---

This winter has been quite a ride. Iceland has been hit by several
impressive storms since Decemeber that's kept us mostly bottled up inside
the apartment. Storms here usually consist of extremely strong winds and
on occasion snow. The country has a color-coded warning system to advise
on travel conditions. Yellow alerts have been fairly common, but orange is
where things start getting really dangerous.

The storm season isn't over yet, either. Just today we got word that we
can [expect a cyclone on
Friday](https://grapevine.is/news/2020/02/11/possible-cyclone-touching-down-in-iceland-this-friday/).
The [Reykjavík Grapevine](https://grapevine.is/) has had a hard time
keeping up with all of this wintry activity.

{{< figure src="/images/winter-warnings.jpg" caption="Winter storm warnings">}}

It's not always wintery-doom here though. Some days it's clear with
beautiful blue skies. The wind may or may not be lying in wait around the
corner ready to pounce on you, though. You never can tell.

There's a term for that here, actually. _Gluggiveður_ (Window Weather) is
pretty common. Looking outside from the cozy heated apartment it can seem
like a perfect day to go for a walk. Step outside and the needles slam
into your face. Lovely!

{{< figure src="/images/helgafell-snow.jpg" caption="Helgafell covered in snow">}}

There have been a few breaks here and there, thankfully. We've made it out
and about a few times, and Wit's school has only had a single day when it
closed. There's been a lot of cultural activities that we could have taken
advantage of as well, but we seem to be on some unlucky timing with
sicknesses in that regard. This past weekend was a winter lights festival
downtown that we were hoping to enjoy, but Wit picked up the flu on
Thursday and has been shut in ever since.

The biggest bit of poor timing was at the beginning of January when I had
scheduled a trip back to the US for a work meeting (and delicious wings).
The weather started to turn bad in the morning as I walked my way up to
the center of Mosfellsbær to catch an airport shuttle. The wind and snow
started picking up, but I made it all the way to the airport without
incident. I breezed through security (thanks EU passport!) and was
snacking at the gate with my Kindle and watching out the window as things
got crazy.

There was a winter storm coming in, a big one. It was a red warning in the
north of Iceland, but it wasn't supposed to hit hard until the evening.
Within 30 minutes of my sitting down, this is what the airport windows
looked like:

{{< figure src="/images/snowy-window.jpg" caption="Airport windows covered in snow">}}

The good folks at Keflavík airport were trying hard to get people out of
there before things got really bad. They braved the winds to load our bags
and had the crews standing by waiting for a break in the winds so they
could take off. One plane did make it out, but then the delays began.

First thirty minutes, than an hour, then two. It was just getting worse
outside all the time. We got word that the roads to and from the Airport
had shut down just before they announced that all flights were canceled.

{{< figure src="/images/airport-line.jpg" caption="Lines at the Airport">}}

There was a nice mad rush to rebook leading to this epic line. I waited in
this for about 4 hours that night and equally long for my bags to get
rescued off the planes which were stranded outside where no workers could
get to them because of the weather. The next day I eventually made my way
back home, but sadly without delicious wings.

We're ready to get out of the house and do something. With luck sickness
and weather will align some day soon.

<!--  vim: set shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4 expandtab: -->
