---
title: "Oceans and Health Teachers"
date: "2005-08-18"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "oceans-and-health-teachers"
---

On the ocean of life we find ourselves drifting aimlessly across there
are many things to find. There are innumerable stormy seas threatening
to capsize us again and again. There are hidden reefs ready to tear at
us hidden beneath the surface. There are as many visitors to that ocean
as there are moments, and occasionally we even find an island.

In grade school I had a health class teacher of the sort we all know. He
wasn't a popular teacher at all. In fact, he was one of those people you
look back upon and cringe at how horrible his life must have been. No
one respected him, not the students, not other teachers, no one. But he
was always there and he always did his job. It was from his lips that I
first learned the term "self esteem" and all that it implies. In one of
my most powerful memories of that time, I recall him telling us that he
had only two friends. He said he knew many people and was friendly with
them, but he had only two friends that he would carry for the rest of
his life. I used to think that was sad, an echo of the poor man he was
in spirit. Lately I've come to understand how lucky he is.

Like those stormy seas or giant turtles, perhaps, friendships float by
us all the time. We are fated to cross paths with so many in a lifetime
that it is our devoir to forget more than we recall. Maybe this makes
those special people all the more special, though. Those islands we find
in our vast oceans are our navigation points, our anchors, our vacations
at times. Mainly they are the real adventures for us to explore
ourselves.

I think that poor despised teacher of mine had something really good
going for him back then. Though I had nothing but pity, he didn't need
even that from me. He had his waypoints, his islands. And though there
were only two of them, that's more than enough to make the whole journey
worth it.

It's a well known fact to most people that I am luckier than the average
person. Given fair odds, my coin will land on heads much more than one
might expect. So when I take stock of my life and find four islands
already, it doesn't surprise me greatly.

Three of those islands are married now and the fourth claims she never
will be. It fills me with joy to see them all so happy. One of my close
friends had a child yesterday. Technically I believe the date was the
16th when the baby boy finally joined the world. In this miracle, I see
the reflection of my own life and smile at the brilliant harmony of it
all. No matter what ills befall us all in the future, we have those
people we love. Nothing, not death or fights or bad cooking can take
that away from us. They are islands and they aren't going anywhere, like
it or not.
