---
layout: "post"
title: "On the surface"
date: "2009-08-21"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "on-the-surface"
---

> *I pretend not to teach, but to inquire; and therefore cannot but confess here again,--that external and internal sensation are the only passages I can find of knowledge to the understanding. These alone, as far as I can discover, are the windows by which light is let into this DARK ROOM. For, methinks, the understanding is not much unlike a closet wholly shut from light, with only some little openings left, to let in external visible resemblances, or ideas of things without: which, would they but stay there, and lie so orderly as to be found upon occasion, it would very much resemble the understanding of a man, in reference to all objects of sight, and the ideas of them.*

> *-Â John Locke - [Essay Concerning Humane Understanding][] (II,XI,17) (1690)*

Locke's understanding of our existence was likened to a dark closet with
only pinholes and door cracks to let in light. These, he gathered, could
be likened to our perceptions of things via the various senses we have
at our disposal; the five physical senses, and the innumerable mental
and spiritual senses that define our inner reactions and predilections.
To me, this sense of the world always triggers memories of Plato's
[allegory of the cave][]. Everything we can know and understand is just
a reflection on the wall of some perfect <span
style="font-style:italic">nous</span> that is forever out of reach.

Neoplatonists later built upon the image in their dissection of the
order of the heavens and used it to define many levels of the gods that
were known to them. The Demiurge, hyper-cosmic and cosmic gods, and of
course, the "One" were all built into their mythos by way of this logic.
Who knew that describing perfection could become so complex.

Plotinus, one of the most famous neoplatonists, had a particular visual
analogy used to describe the celestial spheres and explain our
relationship to the sacred that stands out quite clearly in my memory.
Our world is a great crystal sphere in which each person is a single
facet facing outward toward the void. Deep within that sphere is a world
filled with perfect beings, and at the very center, God. Of course he
doesn't use those terms. In fact, in my inprecise memory I think it
might have been St. Augustine that made the connection to God. Somewhere
in that metaphor I lose track of what was Plotinus, what Augustine, what
Locke, and what parts come from the other floating bits of disconnected
philosophy that make up my daydreams.

In my conjoined vision, I see the light from God pouring outward through
the sphere. The perfect bodies in the center let that light fill them
and pass through unbiased to us, but we, the imperfect children are
turned away. We watch the outer world with rapt attention and marvel at
our shadows. The world for us becomes this dancing puppet theater of
shadows on the wall even as we are bathed in God's light.

It's an incomplete vision, but a helpful one. I've used it time and time
again to put certain theological questions into perspective. In fact, it
was instrumental in helping me come to terms with and believe in the
doctrine of the trinity.

In the light of my recent discernment, the metaphor has become a tool to
help me in the Jesuit way of finding God in everyday life. I try to see
it not in an abstract way of floating in space, but rather to picture
this physical space that I embody as the my facet on the crystal. All
directions for me on this world are outward from the sphere, and
everything I see is a reflection upon creation. I imagine that to look
inside and past myself is like trying to turn around and glimpse back
into the crystal, toward heaven. I try it at times but often find myself
standing in the way. Though, some places have been more successful than
others.

![Resurrection Bay](//blog.tomasino.org/images/resurrection_bay.jpg)

Resurrection Bay in Seward, Alaska, was one of the most beautiful and
thought provoking places I've ever been. I found the opportunity to
kayak on the bay twice while I lived up there, and both times were
filled with lengthy introspective trips across my metaphorical celestial
sphere. At first I thought it was just the natural beauty and unending
wilderness that surrounds everything that put me into that mood and let
me step out of the way and feel God's presence wash over my face. In
retrospect, I think the act of kayaking may have had a much larger place
in that equation that I originally thought.

Skimming across the surface of the water, glancing into the depths,
gently dipping my fingertips; on a kayak the metaphor seems more real
than the physical world. I squint into the sky and watch an eagle
floating in place on invisible currents. Even without the paddle in the
water I can feel the pull of my own currents. On that great surface
there isn't a need to close my eyes to picture the crystal anymore.

![Sea Otter](//blog.tomasino.org/images/sea_otter.jpg)

In the waking dream, floating on my tiny vessel, the world is alive with
signs and omens. The eagle is more than a bird. Each body becomes
perfect, and my sense of God is omnipresent.

I really like kayaking!

  [Essay Concerning Humane Understanding]: //www.gutenberg.org/etext/10615
  [allegory of the cave]: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allegory_of_the_cave
