---
title: "Review: City of Bones"
date: "2012-01-29"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Fantasy"
  - "Fiction"
  - "Review"
  - "Writing"
slug: "review-city-of-bones"
---

![City of Bones](//photo.goodreads.com/books/1309277410m/256683.jpg)

My rating: [2 of 5 stars][]

(I'm going to murder Goodreads for just deleting the huge, detailed
review I just wrote. Let's see if I have the patience to do this again)

City of Bones, the first Mortal Instruments novel, is about as
unremarkable as anything I've read in the past five years. The
characters are flat, the plots are lifted from well known tropes (and
implemented ungracefully), the descriptions are hammy and ill-timed, and
the narrative voice will convince you that your author would rather be
nerding-out watching anime than really writing a book.

The main character, Clary, is prototypically insecure as a regular
mortal thrust into a magical world that's all new and shiny. The concept
makes you roll your eyes, and it only gets worse from there. What
surprises lay in store for our young heroine? Will there be a love
triangle? Perhaps someone will betray her, or maybe someone will reveal
that they aren't who they claimed to be? Yeah, you'll see it all coming
a mile away, and you won't really care.

The main supporting male lead, Jace, is a fantastic example of an author
falling in love with her character. If I read one more paragraph about
how amazing and infinitely talented he was, despite being a tormented
bad-boy who must be forgiven his caustic personality, I think I might
have hurled.

All-in-all, City of Bones is formulaic, mediocre, and boring. It reads
at a young-adult level, so perhaps that audience will be more taken in
by it. For myself, I will not be continuing the series.

[View all my reviews][2 of 5 stars]

  [2 of 5 stars]: //www.goodreads.com/review/show/136787452
