---
title: "Review: A Spell for Chameleon"
date: "2012-11-23"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "review-a-spell-for-chameleon"
---

![A Spell for Chameleon](//d.gr-assets.com/books/1350835227m/76664.jpg)

My rating: [1 of 5 stars][]

Xanth was the first series of books that caught my attention as a child,
and I have Piers Anthony to thank for my love of reading today. I read
nearly twenty of the books before moving on to more advanced fantasy
series. What is most remarkable about all of that to me, however, is
that I don't remember once thinking how horrifically sexist the books
are!

It's hard to talk about the magic of Xanth and the great and interesting
talents of its people because the book is overwhelmed with things like a
mock rape trial, observations about the uselessness, deception, and
irrelevancy of women, and downright shameful reduction of women's role
in society and men's lives as objects. I am not a vocal advocate for
women's issues, and I'm very often turned off by liberation or
empowerment propaganda, but in the face of outright misogynistic vitriol
I cannot help but take a stand. It is one thing to discuss the
differences of the sexes, their relative strengths and weaknesses, and
even allow for some socio-historical context to influence the characters
in a fantasy setting; but Piers Anthony goes way beyond that at every
turn. The book somehow makes a claim to be about the worth of a person
being judged by doing the right and just thing even when faced with
unjust situations. Yet it takes a pause in the very beginning of the
main character's adventure to have a completely pointless aside where in
the guise of a legal proceeding he dismisses the entire concept of date
rape as being ridiculous. He outright claims that a beautiful and smart
woman must be inherently evil, and that it is only natural for a man to
want a woman of both intelligence and beauty, but not at the same time.
These things overshadow every aspect of the fantasy story being told. I
can't even begin to talk about the story's tales of companionship,
illusion, history, or growth. They all take a back seat to one man's
disgusting vision.

As my own son grows, I had planned on offering up this series to him at
an early age in hopes of capturing his interest in reading. You can be
sure that won't be happening. No boy should grow up thinking these kinds
of thoughts about women. No good and just actions can come of it.

[View all my reviews][1 of 5 stars]

  [1 of 5 stars]: //www.goodreads.com/review/show/453690826
