---
layout: "post"
title: "Review: Tigran Petrosian His Life And Games"
date: "2012-03-13"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Review"
slug: "review-tigran-petrosian-his-life-and-games"
---

![Tigran Petrosian His Life And Games](//photo.goodreads.com/books/1278483129m/7610725.jpg)

My rating: [4 of 5 stars][]

Tigran Petrosian, the Iron Tigran, is undoubtably one of the greatest
defensive chess grand masters of all time. His tenure as World Champion
for six years gave credence to his unique style and temperament as a
true fighting one. He was brilliant yet understated, daring yet
underestimated, powerful yet humble. His play was an art, a science, and
a way of life; and this book shows all of these qualities beautifully.

Mr. Vasiliev's expertly navigates through Petrosian's personal and
professional life with the rare quality of a man comfortable in the
world and over the table. He pairs his interesting and dynamic
historical accounts with expert chess analysis of some of Petrosian's
greatest and most important chess games. A small warning is due here, as
the games are in descriptive notation, which may represent a challenge
for some readers. Still, the games are wonderfully analyzed with only
occasional jaunts into alternate lines. He lets the positions speak for
themselves most often.

The final chapter, written by Petrosian himself, is a fantastic way to
wrap up the biography. In hearing his own analysis of the candidates
series, the strange occurances over the table with Fischer, his
evaluation of Spassky, and his thoughts on the future of chess, we get a
glimpse into the truth of Vasiliev's depiction. The champion's humor,
depth of thought, and most of all, humility, are all clearly present and
alive. What a gift to read and experience.

Beyond the simple historic content of the book, I was amazed by the
strength of the author's arguments for Petrosian's style as more than
valid, but "correct" for his temperament. Again and again in the words
of Petrosian and his peers we hear the same message, that it is
important to play chess as yourself. His greatest victories were along
these lines. The psychological game, the positional game, the art of
defense, brilliance of strategy, and the underlying power of a tactical
mind all in their unique alignment are what made this champion. To play
otherwise would go against his nature and lead only to disaster (as is
shown in some games in his youth). What a fantastic find.

[View all my reviews][4 of 5 stars]

  [4 of 5 stars]: //www.goodreads.com/review/show/275453256
