---
title: "Review: The Wonderful Wizard of Oz"
date: "2012-03-04"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Review"
slug: "review-the-wonderful-wizard-of-oz"
---

![The Wonderful Wizard of Oz](https://photo.goodreads.com/books/1327894516m/236093.jpg)

My rating: [3 of 5 stars][]

I bought this book with the intention of building up a little library of
children's stories for my kids. Along with The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, I
also purchased The Monkey With a Notion (not listed on Goodreads), and a
first edition [Where the Wild Things Are][]. I'd like to gather up all
the classic fairy tales used in Disney movies so (s)he has a nice
foundation.

As far as The Wizard of Oz is concerned, I found it very interesting
that Mr. Baum decided to create such a rich fantasy story with no
apparent lesson at all. He addresses this in the introduction to the
book as being a conscious decision. He explains, the fairy tales of the
past were riddled with horror and consequence in order to impart some
moral lesson. However, in this "modern" age, moral education is so
pervasive, he felt these tactics were unnecessary, and instead sought to
provide a purely entertaining story. I would love to share his views on
modern education, but I very much doubt that anyone could honestly claim
our age imparts such strong moral convictions anymore.

The Wonderful Wizard of Oz brought me the most enjoyment in finding
where it diverged from the film, for instance, when the Wicked Witch of
the West is defeated about halfway through the book. Such interesting
changes from the familiar are entertaining, but I wonder how they will
appeal to a young child. Perhaps I expect too much from it, though. In a
child's world, when heroes encounter a problem, they solve that one and
move on. There need be no more complexity than that. They won't care to
go searching for a deeper meaning in the Scarecrow or Lion. Perhaps it
is enough after all.

[View all my reviews][3 of 5 stars]

  [3 of 5 stars]: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/261382148
  [Where the Wild Things Are]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19543.Where_the_Wild_Things_Are
