---
layout: "post"
title: "Sadness as inspiration"
date: "2008-11-21"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "sadness-as-inspiration"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">It is a time when one's spirit is
subdued and sad, one knows not why; when the past seems a storm-swept
desolation, life a vanity and a burden, and the future but a way to
death. It is a time when one is filled with vague longings; when one
dreams of flight to peaceful islands in the remote solitudes of the sea,
or folds his hands and says, What is the use of struggling, and toiling
and worrying any more? let us give it all up.</span>

    - Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner - The Gilded Age (1873)

What line separates the personal me from the public me? Is it even a
line? Does it move around? I say so much on here but even that is in
vague riddles half the time. And why? Other people ask me why, I ask
myself as well, but there is no real answer. I'm not comfortable. I
don't like other people to know things. They can use that knowledge
then. They could tell more people I don't want to know and everything
could spread. Am I hiding something? Sure, I'm hiding lots, but nothing
specific. I don't have a secret book in my closet of all my dirty
history or anything. It's everything all at once.

Of the seven muses of ancient Greece it seems fitting that the singing
goddess Melpomene would become known as the muse of tragedy. Even so
long ago it was obvious that the inspiration of song, dance, and
literature stems from this same fountain. I see no reason for it to be
different for me, or for anyone.

My inspired moments most often have their roots in a sort of melancholy
which alternates between the preponderously mundane and the factitiously
contrived. Regardless of earnestness or pretense, the resultant state of
interminable woe regularly leads toward a steady stream of artistic
creation galvanized into being by what Twain refers to as a "storm-swept
desolation". Some nights, like tonight, I find it difficult to rest, not
because of any particular dysphoria or anguish, but rather in response
to my own reverberation to this state. The muse strikes with such force,
such potency, that I am exhausted of any inclination towards any real
production. Instead I am left with something akin to a metacognative
rambling on the nature of my own... nature. Perhaps it's simply a
contradiction of my own fatigue and obstinacy.

Whatever the rationale, it's clear that I am not alone in this
consideration. It was, indeed, just such a time when Twain's character
finally heard the muse clear enough to let go of her clouded countenance
and put the last remnants of her old life to the flame. Melpomene's song
is, after all, quite intoxicating.
