---
title: "Service"
date: "2011-11-11"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Navy"
slug: "service"
---

Yes, I served. I enlisted in the Navy when things weren't going so well
for me. It was a bit of a whim decision, but one I don't regret at all.
They fixed me up in more ways than one.

My time was pretty uninteresting. I never went to sea. I served in Goose
Creek, SC for a little over a year. My biggest highlight was getting
injured during training and spending about 7 months on medical hold
waiting for the results of a physical evaluation board. Eventually I was
discharged honorably to my great relief.

Boot camp was absolutely horrible for me. For some of the guys who were
in better shape, I think it seemed a bit of a joke. Not for me, though.
I dropped from about 230lbs to 170lbs in those three months. It's also
where I broke both tibias, torn my ACL and meniscus. The docs gave me
motrin and told me to drink more water. Take that as a lesson, NFL
players.

Anyway, my service was pretty unremarkable, but I was there. The time I
spent in South Carolina after basic training was pretty great. My short
time in A-School introduced me to some wonderful new friends, and
studying to be a Nuclear Engineer was pretty awesome. Wearing my uniform
to my sister's wedding was incredible, too. It was all the joys and none
of the danger, I suppose.

These days, I still collect my disability from the VA and I'm a member
of the American Legion. Would I have died for my country? I never had
the opportunity to find out for real, but the pride I felt at basic
training graduation still lingers with me. I like to think I'd have kept
with my oath in times of trouble, but we really never know until the
moment happens. Anyway...

To all those out there who served quietly like I did, and to those who
really carry the burden of military service, and especially to those who
didn't make it back, have a happy Veteran's Day, and thank you all.

![James in the Navy][]

  [James in the Navy]: https://blog.tomasino.org/images/navy.jpg
    "James in the Navy"
