---
title: "Shadows"
date: "2005-01-31"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "shadows"
---

_From an old journal_

Sometimes the past comes back, not in a hurtful way, not in a manner of
sublime sadness, or even in a way of longing. It just comes back when
you don't expect it and says hello. I imagine myself opening the door to
my apartment looking outside and seeing my old house in Maryland or a
sandy trail in Jersey, or a frozen bridge in tabernacle. It's not that
it's surprising necessarily. just definitely unexpected.

How can I explain some people in my life? Years go by and rather than
get less important, some individuals seem to get bigger, more full of
meaning and relevancy. Old yearnings transform into complex criteria for
future relationships and the most painful moments become the most
valued. In this, still, there are fires burning deep inside that warm me
to my core where once they burned me deeply. Is it the same when a
beaten child finds a sense of comfort in it?

So the past wrote me, as it was. Soft underbelly... When I think back, I
can't remember more than two times that I ever found weakness in those
eyes. Perhaps that was one of my early faults. I've become a much
stronger person since, but even so, it's nice to be offered a sign of
weakness. It's comforting.

So I'm an addict born of my early pains. I'd like to think we all are,
but that's wishful thinking and I'm anything but an optimist. I will
talk to her, and she will lose something for that. Maybe I will help her
and she will get something from it, or maybe life will take a direction
I don't foresee. I'd like to believe that can happen in a good way.

The crux of it is that my life is defined by people. A very short list
of people. And at the top of that list is one person who, through no
fault of her own, I find both intoxicating and nauseating. The best
mental image in my mind is of her smile, and yet I've never known such
pain as that very same moment. It is these complex feelings that make up
me, as James at least. As for the rest of me, well... that's a whole
different post altogether, and one I don't expect will come out anytime
soon.
