---
title: "Silence"
date: "2008-04-02"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Discernment"
  - "Introspective"
slug: "silence"
---

This summer I'll be going on another Jesuit retreat at the [Ignatius
House][], here in Atlanta. My first trip, last fall, was a spectacular
experience with insights and discoveries too numerous to name here. I
tried writing about it a few times, but rather than letting that stream
of consciousness flow unchecked upon the internet, I decided to put all
those thoughts into a paper journal. My personal struggles aside, the
retreat itself could use a bit of explaination.

The Ignatius House runs silent, reflective retreats on weekends
throughout the year. Some of those weekends are themed, where every few
hours a priest will give a brief talk about the faith as it relates to
both the chosen theme and St. Ignatius' Spritual Exercises. The talks
last thirty minutes or so, and then everyone is let loose to wander the
grounds, both inside and out, in search of peaceful reflection on the
topics. Sometimes that peace comes sitting in a fluffy chair in the
library, while other times it strikes you suddenly in the middle of a
trail leading down to the river. One thing I'm fairly confident about,
though, is that it did strike all of us that were there.

Before the retreat kicks off, there is an informal gathering where
people introduce themselves and share tidbits of their lives over
cookies. It's a friendly meeting, but you can tell that most everyone is
anxious to get on with the silence and enter their own mini-worlds. When
the bell rang that signaled the beginning, there was a palpable weight
that lifted and at the same time settled over everything. I remember
clearly the reaction of a Methodist woman who was very unsure of the
whole enterprise when that tiny ringing began. Her eyes widened and
searched around the room, then, seeing everyone's eyes turning inward,
she smiled a broad grin and closed hers.

I've described the first day's silence as a weight, like a foreign
presence that sits on top of everything. You are keenly aware of it,
careful not to disturb it, and anxious of the hows, whens, and whats of
everything around you. The first few hours, my head raced with things I
wanted to say, or ask, or mumble. I mentally ordered them, filed away
for safe keeping until later when we could speak to each other again. It
was daunting, thinking of how much I had to remember for the whole
weekend. I even toyed with the idea of writing down all my thoughts and
questions for later. And then we had our first lecture.

The topic was very apt, about Jesus' love for us, and welcoming of us.
It was an excellent introduction to the weekend filled with as many
questions as it was pleasantries. By the time the old Jesuit had
finished his little talk, I had forgotten my questions from earlier. In
their place was a warm fuzzy feeling, like I wasn't really there, in
that place, in that chair, in the midst of strangers. I was on the first
steps of a long journey and there was no one on the road but myself. I
went to sleep early that night, dreamed heavily, and woke late. In the
morning, things had changed already.

Besides the nagging questions of faith I was having, and the amazing
clarity and speed at which I was addressing them, there were other
things floating through my mind; like a metacognative awareness of my
own learning, and a recognition of the spirituality of the place as a
whole, outside of the realm of the people, statues, and paths carved all
around. I found a leaf hanging ten feet below a branch from a single
thread of a spider's web. Plucking it free, I placed it into my journal
with a smile. So much meaning comes from such little places when the
silence is upon you.

That second day, the silence was a part of me. The stranger that had
oppresessed my speech yesterday had settled into me in the night. When
the third day came, and the bell rang again signalling the end of the
silence, it was a long breath before anyone bothered to speak up. When
the words came out, they were quiet, like they didn't want to break that
tenative thread that held each of us in that place. We could feel
ourselves suspended by a thread.

On the drive home, I left the radio turned off. I took long winding
roads and several purposful wrong turns. I was scared that silence would
be gone the instant I was back in my old world again.

This summer, I'll be taking a week-long retreat instead of the short
weekend one. Instead of lectures every few hours, this retreat is
individually guided, meaning I'll meet with my spritual director once a
day and spend the rest of the time in silent meditation. My fear this
time is not that I wont want to leave, but that I wont be able to.

My discernment is not an endless process. It leads somewhere tangible.
Some day or another I'll take that step, and places like the Ignatius
House make me feel that the moment is very close indeed.

  [Ignatius House]: //www.ignatiushouse.com
