---
title: "Slow revelations"
date: "2007-09-13"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Discernment"
  - "Introspective"
slug: "slow-revelations"
---

Somewhere between the steel framed bed racks, fluorescent lights and
linoleum tile, I lost my sense of self. It wasn't a permanent thing. I
remembered who I was just as quickly. In that Navy compartment, after
doing jumping jacks for so long that the pain no longer felt like pain,
all of me dulled away. It was a lot like meditations I'd done before,
but also totally different. The heat steamed from our bodies, and we
watched in confusion as our sweat condensed on the ceiling above us and
began to rain. Rain from inside! It was miraculous, but I couldn't enjoy
it then. Only later, when I had a sense of who and where I was did I
find it beautiful.

In that brief moment when I ceased to be me, when I was empty and void
as much physically as mentally, something changed in me. Some deep
question that I had thought I would never answer was answered. It was
like I found some tiny piece of a puzzle so large, I'd never be able to
see it all at once. But just having the one piece proved there was a
puzzle. And so, before I did jumping jacks, I was Agnostic, and after I
did them, I was Catholic again.

It's a simple way to put it. It suggests that all in one moment, I was
converted from not believing to believing; in the blink of an eye, I
found God. That's not the way of it at all, though. In fact, my division
already called me Reverend long before those jumping jacks. I led the
nightly prayer just after lights out. I was the one people confided in.

So what changed, then? I didn't find God in that moment. I didn't
recognize or necessarily believe in the divinity of Christ, yet. I had
always been interested in religions, especially in Gnosticism, and
metaphysics. This was different, though. Something changed the Sacred
from an aspect of my intellectual desire, manifested through the
numinous, and experienced through hierophany to a totally inhabited
presence around and with me. And most importantly, I felt it very
strongly.

It was strong enough, in fact, that I felt the need to explain to my old
friends as soon as I talked to them. I told them I considered myself
Christian again, setting it up before them like a sign they could either
accept or walk away from. Despite all of my previous observations on
converts and the ridiculous over-zealous acceptance and implementation
of their new faiths, I walked right into the same trappings. I am a
little embarrassed now about that time, but I think it's necessary for
some people.

So this strong presence was upon me, and somehow I knew it was God, and
I knew what the message was. It was as clear as day, but totally
inexpressible in words. I was called to something, I had a vocation. I
didn't know what it meant, precisely, and even now I still see only tiny
pieces of the puzzle. I assume it will always be like that.

Part of me always expected that the Saints felt something overwhelming
and precise when they had their revelatory moments. Something in them
should have snapped and separated the one day sinner to the new day
saint. I always thought that was how things happened, quick and
absolute, like in Bible stories. But even those stories didn't happen
overnight. Long years of oral tradition may have made them seem that
way, but things always seem to have taken their time.

As an example, though not Biblical, Saint Ignatius Loyola was a soldier
in the army when on May 20th, 1521, in the citadel of Pampeluna, a
cannon ball passed between his legs, crushing the bone and muscle. While
he was recovering from his wounds (a process that nearly killed him) he
read the stories of Christ. After a long time, the true message was
finally revealed to him and he realized that he had been living for the
things of this world, but he was being called to live for the eternal.
From the story, it sounds like there and then he was a changed and holy
person, destined to become a saint, but that's only the beginning. Just
like me, Ignatius found his calling while he was injured in the
military, and just like me, he had no idea what to do with the knowledge
when he left. He traveled to Jerusalem and back again and to all manner
of places for six years before he decided to seek formal education.
During those years, he starved himself next to death in hope of finding
revelation of God's intentions for him. He ran wherever he felt called
and did whatever he could. In the end, time and prayer brought
understanding. Later, St. Ignatius would organize that time of careful
reflection and self examination into his Book of the Spiritual
Exercises.

<span style="font-style: italic;">If God causes you to suffer much, it
is a sign that He has great designs for you, and that He certainly
intends to make you a saint. And if you wish to become a great saint,
entreat Him yourself to give you much opportunity for suffering; for
there is no wood better to kindle the fire of holy love than the wood of
the cross, which Christ used for His own great sacrifice of boundless
charity.</span>

    - Saint Ignatius Loyola - The testament of Ignatius Loyola, being
sundry acts of our Father Ignatius, under God, the first founder of the
Society of Jesus, taken down from the Saint's own lips by Luis Gonzales
(1900)
