---
title: "Stories"
date: "2009-01-25"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Fantasy"
  - "Introspective"
  - "Writing"
slug: "stories"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">Expansion, that is the idea the
novelist must cling to, not completion, not rounding off, but opening
out.</span>

    - Edward Morgan Forster - [Aspects of the Novel][] (1927)

Last year I talked about trying out [NaNoWriMo][] in my blog. It turned
out to be a wonderful challenge for Kenn, who is still working hard on
his book and loving it. I, on the other hand, managed to pack enough
trips and work into the month that I barely even started my own novel.
It was a pretty pitiful showing, honestly. I think I managed about 5,500
words out of the 50,000 word goal. But I don't feel too bad about the
loss. It was a gamble to begin with, knowing my own writing process, and
it did give me some valuable insights into my story's background and
outline.

I've read a lot of blogs, books, and articles where authors explain
their methods of writing. Some, like Maria V. Snyder write from the hip,
coming up with each piece of the story as it unfolds. For them, writing
is as much a process of discovering what happened next as it is for the
reader. For other authors, a novel requires a lot of planning,
organization, maps, outlines, reworking, and sticky-notes. I definitely
fall into the later category.

My story is about a woman who makes a fatal mistake because of her
pride, and is faced with the option of dying knowing she has failed her
people, or sacrificing her soul to save them. The book starts with her
sacrifice. From there the story is very much an adventure with a race
against time. Typical of epic fantasy, there are a lot of interwoven
plots and character backgrounds. Also typical of the genre, things
rarely go according to plan.

Originally, when I started writing this story years ago, it was far from
fantasy. It was the story of a girl growing up in Pittsburgh during the
Great Depression. There were mystical elements to it, but I wanted to
stay away from genre work so badly, I fought against it anywhere I
could. At the time, I wanted to see it in the literature section, not
the sci-fi/fantasy section of my bookstore. Time has made that
distinction much less important. In fact, I don't think I'd be too upset
if it never sees publication. These days, the story is much more about
writing it for myself, not that I'd complain if someone wanted to put it
out there.

So much has changed from that original story. The main character's names
have shifted, as well as the setting and even the main plot. Whatever
their names, though, the characters remain the same in their core. The
young girl who is our heroine still has the dark streak in her that
risks turning her into the anti-hero. The brooding boy that accompanies
her still makes the same adolescent mistakes that keeps him in his
familiar cloud of problems. The older gentleman, who everyone goes to
with the problems of the world, has that same arrogance that lead his
student down the dark path that put the plot in motion. So even with all
the changes and growth, I still feel it is the same fundamental story.
It is, perhaps, just a little bit less personal now.

So why is it on my mind today? Well, recently I found the time to finish
the first complete draft of my outline. Every chapter is in place with a
rough description of the action for each main character, with notes on
point-of-view and notes on character development. Next up is a complete
outline of each character's development throughout the book. Then I'll
go through a revision of each of these, and begin writing.

Maybe I'm not quite where Kenn is, but I'm feeling very good about
writing. I'm not looking toward finishing, but beginning, expanding, and
opening out.

  [Aspects of the Novel]: https://books.google.com/books?id=vzBtSnA4rLAC
  [NaNoWriMo]: https://www.nanowrimo.org
