---
layout: "post"
title: "Stuff"
date: "2008-05-10"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "stuff"
---

I'm getting rid of all of my stuff.

At first, the thought was that I would simplify by getting rid of a few
highly annoying items, things that are big, combersome, and meaningless
to me. So, I made [a list][]. It's hard to describe all your possessions
in that way, expendible or essential. If you get nothing else out of
this post, I would recommend making that list. You'll be amazed at the
results.

Once I had my list in hand, I realized right away that it wasn't enough.
I really want to cut down on the clutter, but the things I most want to
shed were gifts or heirlooms, sure-in's for the essential list. Not a
good start.

So I tried again, this time choosing to ignore the meaning of the item,
and instead picking things purely by function. I kept my bed - I like a
good night's sleep - the large metal rack, my laptop, my kindle, my
keyboard, and my kitchen junk. Everything else is truely expendible. But
I digress.

At the core of all of this is a simple assertion, that the accumulation
of possesions is not only unnecessary, it's harmful to how I want to
live. The reasons are simple. I'm nomadic, and as such, I move fairly
often. The more stuff, the more expensive it is to move. Also, it
requires me to find bigger and bigger apartments, to fit all my extra
stuff. I haven't gotten any bigger - not too much, anyway - so it
doesn't make a lot of sense why I need a bigger place. Thirdly, when my
possessions clutter my life, there is a large psychological cost
(there's a lot more that could be said on this point, but I'll save it
for another time). And finally, I get wrapped up in these emotional
attatchments to certain items because of their history. The result is a
bit of a three-way Catch-22, where I'm unhappy that my apartment is too
small for all my clutter, I'm unhappy that I have so much useless stuff,
and I'm unhappy because I can't get rid of sentimental things and new
ones keep appearing.

So once I decided that I was going to get rid of my stuff, the question
became, how much should I keep. My religious aspirations aside, in
living my life for the day-to-day, I put a value on what it was I really
needed to keep me mentally, physically, and spiritually happy. The
result was an overwhelming, "Less is more."

The best decision I made on this front in Alaska was to get rid of my
internet access. I let that slide when I moved to Atlanta due to some
pressures from distant friends, but the result has made it all the more
clear that I can't be trusted to budget my time properly as long as I
have this persistent connection. In a similar vein, there are lots of
other habits I have around my apartment that lead to time-wasting,
messiness, and generally bad living conditions. I'm going to need to
take care of all of these.

The next step for me was to evaluate certain special collections or
objects. What do I do with all my books, for instance? At first, I
thought I would just do the same process of identifying the books I
wanted to keep and shedding the rest, but I'm a pack rat. The behavior
was passed down from my Dad, and it's alive and well in me. The only way
to shed the books is all or nothing. The same goes for lots of other
things: "records, DVDs, CDs, etc. To go from having a lot to having a"
little, you must purge.

I won't lie. It's emotional. It's frightening to think of the amount of
money I've poured into all these things, and to think that I'm going to
give them away or sell them for next to nothing. In the end, I believe
it's worth the cost to simplify. The lesson having been learned, I'll
hope to avoid this same problem in the future.

So, to reiterate, I'm getting rid of all my stuff. If there are any of
you out there who want something I have, please let me know. I'm
terrible about shipping things, and it's an extra expense I'd like to
avoid, but if you can pick things up and take them away, they're yours.

Here's a brief list of items that will be going: books, movies, music,
game systems, clothes, instruments, accessories, computers and other
hardware, random electronics, and much more. Give me a call if you want
something.

  [a list]: other/purge_list.html
