---
title: "Subaqueous Orleans"
date: "2005-08-29"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Poetry"
slug: "subaqueous-orleans"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">But afterwards there occurred violent
earthquakes and floods; and in a single day and night of misfortune all
your warlike men in a body sank into the earth, and the island of
Atlantis in like manner disappeared in the depths of the sea.</span>

    - Plato - Timaeus (360BCE)

It seems like something out of biblical scriptures. With all the talk of
flooding and devastation, and yet there it is on the news covered
channel to channel. Today the news isn't about a mythical island of
10,000 years ago but rather a popular place of parties, drinking, and
fun. It's like having the heavens rain brimstone upon Disneyland.

I'm not upset, though. It is unfortunate that all of those homes are
lost and people displaced, but I have to admit I've never been a fan of
New Orleans. Perhaps the distaste comes from my Navy time; after all,
most of boot camp was spent around so-called Cajuns. It is a learned
behavior, wherever it comes from. I suppose that should be a
consolation.

Somehow this whole event has me smiling. Mother Earth took a step
forward a few years ago with a blast called tsunami to remind us all
that we're not as high and mighty as we'd like to believe. Human beings
have far from conquered this planet. While that message was certainly
clear in the East, having this slight echo as a reminder on our western
shores should help bring that into perspective. I suppose it is a relief
to me that the Earth is so comfortable slapping us back after those
years of torment. It feels like a parent delivering retribution onto a
naughty sibling.

Whether 360BCE or 2005CE, we're all on the same little planet dealing
with the same problems. In all that time, we haven't changed at all in
the eyes of nature. Though, perhaps we have a bit [more waste.][]

  [more waste.]: https://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Louisiana_locked_down%3B_New_Orleans_now_a_%22toxic_soup%22
