---
date: 2019-05-31 20:42:34 -0400
title: "T-Minus 1 Month"
tags:
  - Iceland
---

![Thingvellir](//blog.tomasino.org/images/thingvellir.jpg)

With one month to go before we hop on the plane to Iceland our
days seem mostly filled with nervous anxiety and panic over how
much stuff we still need to purge. The move dates are all set and
we've got our hotel stays lined up. My lawyer seems confident we
have everything to satisfy Iceland's residency requirement, and
yet I still worry about what we'll do if we get there and run into
a problem. Stress eating is in full swing, and that doesn't help
the mood either.

In work news, my current company has figured out a way to let me
continue to do work for them as an independent vendor. It would be
a part time affair, and slowly drop off over time, but it could
provide a nice source of income during the first few months while
we get settled. I think finding a job will be much easier once
we've found our way around and the summer crowds die down a bit.

Pretty much every moment from now until we leave is scheduled with
some sort of activity. I guess staying busy will help keep our
mind off the stress. I have two more weeks of work to focus on
first. Then, that following weekend, we do one more purge pass on
the storage unit and get ready for the packers to arrive on
Monday. The apartment will get all boxed up except for our beds.
Then, Tuesday morning it's load-load-load! We crash that night
with some friends and then check in to a hotel on Wednesday-Friday
nights. Wednesday & Thursday are for offloading the last of our
things, including the cars, and cleaning out the apartment. Friday
we do a small bit of relaxing with friends for a birthday party
then get an early nights sleep. That Saturday we hop in the rental
car and head south to see my parents.

The next week will involve spending some time with family and
getting the storage unit loaded up with the goods we're not
shipping to Iceland. With that out of the way, we'll be all ready
to hop on a plane in Charlotte, fly up to Boston for a nice little
layover, and then off to a new life overseas.

Once we arrive in Iceland there's much, much more to be figured
out still. We haven't decided if we'll try to rent a car for
a couple days to get settled, or if we'll take the bus in to
Reykjav√≠k. We'll need to hit the residency office and immigration
offices right away to get our paperwork moving. Hopefully that
will happen quickly and we'll have what we need to rent an
apartment. We have no idea when our container will arrive in
Iceland or how long we'll need to store it or what we need to do
to clear customs. There's so much stuff that everyone tells us is
no big deal because they do it all the time, but we're totally in
the dark. I just hope we can overcome the hurdles and get settled.

Once we have a place to live and I'm doing contract work and
bringing in a bit of money, we can focus on the next things.
Budgets, school enrollment, furnishings, and adventures. I wish we
could just fast-forward to that phase.


<!--  vim: set shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4 expandtab: -->
