---
title: "The Wake"
date: "2005-02-12"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "the-wake"
---

_From an old journal_

What line separates the personal me from the public me? Is it even a
line? Does it move around? I say so much on here but even that is in
vague riddles half the time. And why? Other people ask me why, I ask
myself as well, but there is no real answer. I'm not comfortable. I
don't like other people to know things. They can use that knowledge
then. They could tell more people I don't want to know and everything
could spread. Am I hiding something? Sure, I'm hiding lots, but nothing
specific. I don't have a secret book in my closet of all my dirty
history or anything. It's everything all at once.

Some people are so happy to tell your their life stories in five
minutes. Others claim no secrets at all and say that everything they do
they wear on their shoulder. But most of us hide. We are wary to share
our pasts because of the hurt they caused us or others, or the fears we
have about how others will perceive us. I'm a little of all of that, and
a little of something different. I enjoy the mystery. I enjoy the
private life, knowing that others don't know me. It makes me smile when
I'm in bed at night and I think about all those secrets bottled up
inside. Is that a secret in itself?

I was at a wake yesterday. A lot of things run through your mind when
standing in front of a coffin, looking at the deceased body of someone
you once knew alive. I like to imagine that they are all the same
thoughts. That everyone thinks the same few things. Maybe something
like:

-   What will I look like when I'm gone
-   Will I even care?
-   Will other people think the same thing when they look at me?
-   How will they remember me at my wake?

The list isn't really that large. There is, of course, a good deal of
memory of the deceased. Thoughts, wishes, prayers to that person. And
the rest, I feel, must be very self-centered. Perhaps it's just me and
my selfish ways. But maybe it's all of us, like I imagine.

I don't fear my secrets after death. Letting them die with me will be
just fine with me. All those people who entrusted things to me, all of
those moments in my life, all gone. It's a beautiful things, really. How
much can people really remember about you, anyway? I'd much rather take
things to the grave then let the world digest upon scraps, taking only
the barest of interests. Does that make sense? Selfish again. They're
mine, my secrets, and I'll keep them forever.

But the end will decide. We'll see what I do, how I fare, and who I
tell. It's a short list so far.

"There are two kinds of people in Alaska: those who were born here and
those who come here to escape something."
