---
title: "The Third World"
date: "2009-04-30"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Christianity"
  - "Discernment"
  - "Introspective"
  - "Religion"
slug: "the-third-world"
---

<span style="font-style: italic;">When a man knows God, he is free: his
sorrows have an end, and birth and death are no more. When in inner
union he is beyond the world of the body, then the third world, the
world of the Spirit, is found, where the power of the All is, and man
has all: for he is one with the One.</span>

    - Svetasvatara Upanishad, Part I - Juan Mascaro, Translation (1967)

This is one of my favorite passages from any religious text. The
Upanishads are all exceedingly beautiful, but this one short segment so
well summarizes the idea of hierophany—of joining with the Sacred in a
moment of transcendence—that I always keep it close by. There are days
when it's hard to pray at all, let alone feel that beautiful connection
with God. At those times when faith is a dry desert I fall back on
poetry. The written word can put me in an empathetic mood so easily it
often helps me find my way back. Can you feel it when you read that
quote? Doesn't it call to something familiar inside you and beg you to
share in the memory of that experience?

Despite the wonderful strides I've been making in my discernment, the
spiritually dry days still come. I wake up late for work and rush
without breakfast or prayer. I come home late and exhausted and all I
want to do is sit and watch Hulu and eat pizza. There are days when I
feel like there's no energy left for God. I know I'm being ridiculous,
of course. I know that I'd feel better if I made the time, but some days
my quest for motivation fails.

My spiritual director reassures me it happens to everyone, and that
while I'm still in this lifestyle I'm going to find it particularly
difficult to find the time here and there for prayer. He says that when
you live a life structured around it, things come a little easier. Its
certainly a relief to think that one day I might live a life where the
feeling they talk about in the Upanishads will be a daily occurrence.

I've been looking for that connection to the world of the Spirit for a
long time, much longer than my present discernment. Even in the really
early days before I turned away from the church, it was the most
beautiful thing I could want. After I started looking at other religions
it remained with me as a common theme pulling them all together. It was
there when I looked at Judaism, Islam, and the Bahá'í Faith. When I
studied Gnosticism, Kabbalah, Sufism, and Tantra, it was there. Through
Buddhism, Hindu and Jainism, uniting with the sacred held it together.
Confucianism, Shinto, Taoism, the same. Even when I looked at Sami,
Tadibya, Tengrism, Leni Lenape myths, and all the wonderful Neopagan
interbreeding branches, there was my familiar friend.

With all of that searching, it took me so long to finally come back to
where I had started. It took me going away, falling and failing,
scraping deeper into everything I could find only to see reflections of
what I already had. Finally, when I was forced to stop thinking and
searching and I just started listening and being, I finally felt a call
to that Third World that spoke to me. It called me instead of waiting
for me to seek it out.

<p>
> <span style="font-style: italic;">You did not choose Me but I chose
> you, and appointed you that you would go and bear fruit, and that your
> fruit would remain, so that whatever you ask of the Father in My name
> He may give to you.</span>
>
>      - John 15:16
> </p>

So now when I have a dry spell, I look back on one of those many sacred
texts I've read and enjoyed for their beauty of language and idea and I
let them return me to the mindset of faith, not because I found a
particular truth in them, but because they were so integral to the
journey that opened my eyes to the call I'd had all along.
