---
layout: "post"
title: "Wanderlust strikes again"
date: "2007-09-08"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Discernment"
  - "Introspective"
  - "Travel"
slug: "wanderlust-strikes-again"
---

A long time ago someone called me predictable in my unpredictability.
Not long after the Atlanta trip and interview, I found myself directing
a couple of guys around my apartment as they packed up all my
belongings. Now I live in my fifteenth location.

It's refreshing to be back in the South again. There are some quirks of
speech and personality here that I find a little annoying, but on the
whole the place is a sunshine filled break from my last rural stop.
Alaska was definitely my favorite place to live so far, touting both an
incredible wilderness, local culture, and a few diners, but there is
something to be said for being connected to the rest of the world. It's
nice to know that my best friends are only a drive away, rather than an
all day flight.

My job here is also great. I learned a whole lot working at Pango Media
about web design and development, and also about the process of working
in a small consultancy with quick turn-around times and tight budgets.
The experience at a large firm like Moxie Interactive is the exact
opposite. I am protected from the wrath and flightiness of clients by my
art directors and project managers. My tasks are well documented, and I
have a support structure of peers and colleagues whose knowledge of
flash and interactive design is on par with my own. When a problem
arises, it's good to know I have someone to turn to.

In the grand scheme of my educational pursuits, Georgia looks like it's
going to be a great resource, too. The path towards the first Tomasino
doctorate seems to have revealed itself in two distinct options. I'm
still debating which to take, or whether doing both is an option. I
think it will probably involve a long talk with my family for some
guidance in the near future.

That being said, my direction towards the Church has never been
stronger. I've done some private writing for myself to flush out some
ideas and issues I've been tossing around in my head. I feel much
clearer these days than ever before. It's hard to believe that I've been
discerning for seven years now. The time has just flown by, but I
suppose all those years were necessary to take me from where I was to
where I am now. It took a very long time before I could have a
conversation about it with my parents or even Kristin. There are still
friends that I haven't told directly, though I'm pretty sure nobody is
really in the dark anymore.

Looking back, when I first felt a call, I thought I could follow it in
my own way. It was silly, really, to think that I was in charge of any
of it, but that is my way. Mankind's original and greatest sin is pride,
and it is very strong in me. Little by little, I've come to the
realization that I'm called to more than I want to give, but that's the
way of God's call. I am not God, and it's not my will that is the most
important thing. A few years ago, when I went to the seminary, I thought
that I could follow the path of a diocesan priest where I could continue
to make some money, save up, do some freelance work, maybe secure myself
a comfortable living. But God gave me a wanderlust that is more powerful
than even my own pride. He knew that I couldn't stay in one place long
enough to join a diocese. He knew that the itch would prevent me from
halfway following his call. The tingling I feel will take me all the
way. I know holy orders are in my future, and now after seven years of
trying to figure out just how I am going to deal with it, I can say with
some measure of self-assuredness that it doesn't matter. My part in the
whole thing is so tiny, so insignificant, that in the end it doesn't
matter at all. God has set a path for me, and I'm going to follow it,
whether I like it or not.

I have a whole lot more to say about all that, but I think I'll wait for
another post.
