---
date: 2019-07-28 19:38:04 +0000
title: "Whale Watching"
tags:
  - Iceland
---

On Friday I took off from work and we went whale watching from the
Reykjavík harbor. It's not the best area to see whales, but it's extremely
convenient for us. Leah also found a company with a fantastic policy: if
you don't see a whale, you get a free comp-ticket to come back and try
again.

Spoilers! We didn't see a whale. That's okay, though. We will have plenty
of opportunity to try again since we live here now. This company also has
an operating base out of the northern city of Akureyri. The whales up
there are more varied and almost always appear. It could be a great trip
next summer. Then again, we may go to Húsavík and take one of the [sailing
tours](https://www.northsailing.is/) instead. It all depends on what's
allowed for Wit's age. We'll definitely find whales one way or another.

![Wit whale watching](https://blog.tomasino.org/images/whalewatching-wit.jpg)

While we didn't see any whales that doesn't mean the trip was a total
waste. We hopped on board the boat after a quick burger at the harbor. It
was spacious with a large galley lounge where you could get snacks and
drinks. We claimed a comfy table in that zone for our bag of coats and
settled in. In just a few minutes we were underway and Wit was eager to go
up on deck. Over the course of the three hours at sea he got plenty of
practice on how to navigate ladders on a boat and how to terrify his dad
by running ahead. Somehow we all managed to survive.

![Leah whale watching](https://blog.tomasino.org/images/whalewatching-leah.jpg)

The air cooled quickly and our coats were a perfect choice. The boat has
jumpsuit-floatation gear you can wear if you're very cold, and kids all
have to wear a life-vest the whole time (no complaints from me). My
[lopapeysa](https://adventures.is/blog/icelandic-wool-sweaters-lopapeysa/)
and Leah's coat were enough for us, though. When we did get a little
chilly, we just moved to the sunny side and warmed up.

While there were no whales to be seen, we had plenty of bird visitors. The
most notable was a group of Northern Fulmars who rode our wake and would
fly quick buzzing passes in front of our ready cameras. They seemed pretty
friendly but be warned! When threatened their defense mechanism is to
vomit on their attacker. Ew.

![Northern Fulmar](https://blog.tomasino.org/images/whalewatching-northernfulmar.jpg)

We also saw a bunch of tiny puffins flying around. They move in groups and
very low to the waves. They're also extremely fast, moving around 50mph.
They're scared of the boats and stayed too far for a good picture. Wit was
pleased to see them, though.

Eventually we made our way back to land and decided to get a bite to eat
downtown before we headed home. While strolling up from the harbor we came
across some fantastic street art, for which Reykjavík is famous. This
stuff is all around town and it really brightens up the place. While some
homes and roofs are bright colors, most of the external facades in the
city are gray concrete. Splashes of art breath in life.

![Reykjavík Street Art](https://blog.tomasino.org/images/reyjkavik-street-art.jpg)

We thought about going back to a little Italian restaurant that Leah liked
from a previous visit, but once we reached it the place was packed with
tourists. There's a lot of options in the downtown area, though, so we
kept walking. After more debate and searching I recommended a Pakistani
place called
[Shalimar](https://www.tripadvisor.com/Restaurant_Review-g189970-d798265-Reviews-Shalimar-Reykjavik_Capital_Region.html).
To my surprise, Wit actually seemed interested once I described the food
and told him he'd be trying something new. Leah was hesitant at first
because she dislikes curry (I told her there were other things than
curry), but she doesn't like to dissuade Wit when he's feeling
adventurous. We went in and had an absolutely incredible meal.

![Lamb Saagwala](https://blog.tomasino.org/images/lamb-saagwala.jpg)

My lamb saagwala was so filling I barely managed to get it all down. We
got some naan, a mango lassi, and a nice selection of chicken dishes too.
The staff were very friendly and we had the place mostly to ourselves.
Eventually a couple locals came in, obviously knowing it for the gem it
is. I think we'll go back there again sometime.

<!--  vim: set shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4 expandtab: -->
