---
title: "Willing suspension of disbelief"
date: "2009-11-18"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Introspective"
slug: "willing-suspension-of-disbelief"
---

> *The only oddity one could fix was that his nose, which was otherwise of a good shape, was just slightly turned sideways at the tip; as if when it was soft it had been tapped on one side with a toy hammer. The thing was hardly a deformity; yet I cannot tell you what a living nightmare it was to me. As he stood there in the sunset-stained water, he affected me as some hellish sea-monster just risen roaring out of a sea like blood. I don't know why a touch on the nose should affect my imagination so much. I think it seemed as if he could move his nose like a finger. And as if he had just that moment moved it.*

> *- G.K. Chesterton - [The Wisdom of Father Brown (1914)][]*

When I was very young, my great-uncle Oscar showed me a magic trick. He
gripped his left thumb firmly in his right hand and then pulled. The tip
of his thumb slid right off and floated there for a moment before
reattaching. My childhood world of simple rules exploded. I was
terrified and shaken. Fingers were removable. What else didn't I know?
What other things were possible?

I look back at the little boy and laugh now about how firmly I believed
in his little trick, but that feeling of suddenly not understanding the
world around you has stayed with me. In some of the more profound
moments of learning it crept back into the forefront.

![Black Swan](//blog.tomasino.org/images/black-swan.jpg)

I was sitting in 6th grade science class when I casually flipped through
my text book. In the opening paragraph of the new chapter we were
beginning was a fairly innocuous little sentence mentioned in passing
without a further note. It said just before the paragraph break, that as
you approach objects of intense gravity, time slows down. Let me say
that again. Time slows down. Imagine yourself in sixth grade suddenly
realizing that time isn't the constant, ever-flowing march of
inevitability that you thought it was. More than a removable thumb, this
idea pulled me out of my comfort zone and tossed me into a spiral of
questioning, doubting, and disbelief.

The textbook never mentioned it again; how's that for teasing? Luckily
my teacher shed some light on the subject. He told us about Einstein and
the idea of relativity. Things became a little more settled in my head
when I could grasp this amazing mystical idea in some frame of
reference. It allowed me to suspend my uncertainty long enough to
recognize the truth. It allowed me to experience something so
horrifyingly "other", but not fear it or let my imagination twist it
into something gruesome.

> *In this idea originated the plan of the "Lyrical Ballads"; in which it was agreed, that my endeavours should be directed to persons and characters supernatural, or at least romantic; yet so as to transfer from our inward nature a human interest and <span style="font-weight: bold;">a semblance of truth sufficient to procure</span> for these shadows of imagination <span style="font-weight: bold;">that willing suspension of disbelief for the moment</span>, which constitutes poetic faith. Mr. Wordsworth, on the other hand, was to propose to himself as his object, to give the charm of novelty to things of every day, and <span style="font-weight: bold;">to excite a feeling analogous to the supernatural</span>, by awakening the mind's attention from the lethargy of custom, and directing it to the loveliness and the wonders of the world before us; an inexhaustible treasure, but for which, in consequence of the film of familiarity and selfish solicitude we have eyes, yet see not, ears that hear not, and hearts that neither feel nor understand.*

> *- Samuel Taylor Coleridge - Biographia Literaria (1817)*

In [Nassim Nicholas Taleb][]'s book, [The Black Swan][], the author
talks about things he calls [Black Swan Events][]. They are the
outlying, improbable events that turn things upside down. In the 17th
century, it was common knowledge that "all swans are white," so much so
that the term, "black swan," became synonymous with something that was
impossible and couldn't exist. How shocking was it for those people
when, in the 18th century, black swans were discovered in Western
Australia? What had been a term for the impossible was instantly
transformed into an argument against the impossible, or perhaps to keep
your eyes open to the possibility of the improbable.

Taleb is concerned with the practical implications of these events, of
how they might affect banks, or politics. His talks focus on the true
events, like learning that time is relative. He values these as either
negative or positive based on their impact to a particular group of
people. But what about the false events, the events like my great
uncle's thumb popping off his hand suddenly. The impact is no less
profound, even if it is only an illusion or shadow of truth. In its
falsehood it still affects and influences. It still strikes with a
profound sense of surprise. Afterward, the effect can still be
rationalized by hindsight and even expected, even if that
rationalization determines the deception. It fits the same rules for a
Black Swan Event, and it itself may be positive or negative. What value
can we find in these?

What about you? What moments were so profound to you that it shattered
your understanding of the world? Was it a real event, or a trick? Was it
in life or in literature? Was it in a classroom or in a movie?

  [The Wisdom of Father Brown (1914)]: //www.gutenberg.org/etext/223
  [Nassim Nicholas Taleb]: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nassim_Nicholas_Taleb
  [The Black Swan]: //www.amazon.com/Black-Swan-Impact-Highly-Improbable/dp/1400063515/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Black Swan Events]: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_swan_theory
