---
title: "Zombie Survival Kit"
date: "2012-10-28"
author: "tomasino"
tags:
  - "Natural World"
  - "Survival"
slug: "zombie-survival-kit"
---

### ![All Gear][]

It's become somewhat of the popular joke to have a post about Zombie
Survival these days, so I guess I'll toss my two-cents into the fray.
Personally, I've never been much concerned with the Zombie menace, but
there many other possible scenarios out there that call for readiness in
the face of limited resources, disrupted public services, and downright
chaos. With that (and an impending hurricane) in mind, I'd like to share
my personal emergency kit with you all.

Let me first preface this by saying that this is far from everything I
have prepared in case of emergency. Rather, this represents my "grab
bags" of absolute essentials that we would take with us in case of a
zero-warning evacuation or similar event. Were we limited to traveling
only on foot, I might drop an item or two (dutch oven). Were we given a
few minutes and the ability to take the car, I might add a few heavier
things.

I have also omitted almost all of my clothing from this kit, mainly
because I didn't want to go digging around in my closet. If you decide
to mimic this, or use it for inspiration, just use some basic common
sense in your clothing choices: layers, avoid cotton, pack light, bring
extra socks.

*This list follows the pictures from the top left, downward in columns,
to the bottom right. The item headings are all links where you can find
these items for purchase.*

![Gear Left][]

### [MTM Survivor Dry Box with O-Ring Seal][]

This box is the core to my medical kit. It is waterproof, tough-as-hell,
and bright orange to find it quick in a hurry. It even has a handy
little compass on the top. How quaint!

### [Adventure Medical Kits Trauma Packwith QuikClot][]

For serious trauma like gunshot wounds or tree branches through your
chest, you need more than a band-aid. While the need may be uncommon,
having this cheap little pack might just save your life, or the life of
someone you love. It takes up very little space, too.

### [Quake Kare Emergency Thermal Blankets (4 Pack)][]

I hope to never have to need this level of extra thermals, but for an
ounce and the tiniest bit of space, these provide us a "blanket" of
security. Terrible joke, I know.

### [OtterBox 1000 Series Waterproof Case][]

These are my waterproof cases within the waterproof case. If there's one
thing you never, ever want to get wet, it's your emergency bandages and
medicines. This extra level of protection is absolutely imperative in my
opinion. Also, if you have anything really sensitive that needs to stay
dry, toss it in one of these. I find that three of them are enough to
fit the Medique kit below.

### [Medique 40061 First Aid Kit, 61-Piece][]

This handy medical kit has it all, short of a hospital, anyway. If you
think you'll have a need for extras of a particular thing, don't
hesitate. If there's one area you shouldn't skimp, it's first aid. If
you're using this as your household first aid kit, remember to replenish
items as you use them. You don't want to get trapped without any
bandages because you "just haven't made it back to CVS yet."

### [Et√≥n FR160R Microlink Self-Powered AM/FM/NOAA Weather Radio with Flashlight, Solar Power and Cell Phone Charger (Red)][]

This thing is a beast. I charged it with the hand crank for just over
ten seconds and then sat listening to the radio all day long. If you
plan on staying in touch with the outside world (or at least informed),
having a backup radio with NOAA stations is important. Besides, this
little guy will charge your cellphone too!

### [Rothco 550lb. Type III Nylon Paracord][]

I'm an Eagle Scout, and thus I never feel lost if I have a good length
of rope. Paracord is extremely strong for its size, but it packs down
light and tight. Use it for everything and everything from a clothesline
to animal traps in the worst of situations.

### [3M Scotch Heavy Duty All-Weather Duct Tape, 1.88-Inch by 45-Yard, 1-Pack (2245)][]

Don't settle for the cheap duct tape. Get the good outdoor all-weather
stuff. One roll should be more than enough to patch things up, bandage
you up, make a stretcher, or any number of other tasks.

### [Hand Axe][]

If your kit needs to help you out past a day or two, being able to work
with the natural resources around you is imperative. Chop up some downed
branches for a fire. Clear a space for your family. Make some posts for
hanging a trash bag (instant trash bin). Be creative and live in outdoor
luxury with this.

### [Chainmate CM-24SSP 24-Inch Survival Pocket Chain Saw With Pouch][]

If you find yourself working with tough wood that needs clearing, having
the right tools makes all the difference. Your hatchet can do a lot, but
sometimes its nice to have a saw too. This thing is tiny and super
light. Add it to the bag and then hope you don't need it.

### [ADC Medicut Shears, 7-1/4"][]

Most scissors are weak and useless when it comes to anything other than
wrapping paper. These things have some real power, and they'll get the
job done again and again. You can even sharpen them!

### [Snow Peak Titanium Spork][]

Ok, there's really no reason for this at all. I just love having a
titanium spork on the list. Sue me.

### [Entrenching Tool][]

My advice for survival scenarios: Learn how to make a latrine.
Seriously. It'll take you five minutes to watch a video on youtube and
it will make your outdoor living much, much easier.

### [Leatherman][]

While I wouldn't rely on one of these guys solo, having all the little
tools is a help. Supplement your main knife with any old Leatherman
model to add versatility.

### [Beretta Airlight II Tactical Knife, 30% Serrated 2.25" Skeleton Blade][]

I'm a bit of a knife junkie. Beretta makes a killer folding knife. If
you have a solid blade like the Mora Classic below, this isn't exactly
necessary, but you can think of it as a backup if that makes you feel
better. You certainly don't want to end up bladeless. These are your
primary tools of survival.

### [Smith's PP1 Pocket Pal Multifunction Sharpener][]

A dull knife is almost as bad as no knife. If you're going to be using
them... really using them, keep them sharp. This will also help you in
cases of accidental cuts. A clean cut heals much faster and with less
chance of infection.

### [Potable Aqua Water Treatment Tablets][]

Clean water is absolutely essential to survival. There are a ton of
options available thanks to fancy technologies these days. Get a filter
pump or some sort of reverse osmosis device and live like kings. Just
make sure to grab some iodine tablets as a backup. Filters break
sometimes. These might make your water taste tinny, but you'll live.
([Side note: you can also use bleach to purify water!][])

### [Petzl E97 Tikka Plus 2 Headlamp][]

In the redundancy department, along with your knives, add light to the
list. A headlamp will keep your hands free to do work. They last a
really long time with LEDs.

### [Gerber Infinity Ultra Task Light][]

Bring a flashlight, but not one with huge, honkin' D batteries. They're
harder to find replacements than AA, and much heavier.

### [Bic Lighters][]

Don't buy them from this link. Get them at your local store for next to
nothing. Have a few handy, along with some matches in your dry-box, just
in case. And while you're watching survival videos on how to make
latrines, you might as well learn to make a fire too. Don't rely on
watching as knowing, though. Give it some practice before you need the
skill.

### [Mora Sweden Classic #1 Red Wood Handle Carbon Steel Knife][]

Very few knives are better than this one. At 15$, you can afford to get
extras too. Treat them well: sharpened, oiled, not chipped. They'll last
a lifetime.

### [Folding Camp Saw][]

Another backup for your chainsaw. Or maybe the chainsaw is the backup.
If you're going to stay outdoors for any length of time, bring a saw.

### [Datrex 3600 Emergency Food Bar][]

You'll notice I haven't put much in the way of food on this list. That's
because you should spend some time learning your local edibles before
you need them. Learn what berries you can eat, and also what animals are
in your area. Learn to make a snare. Don't bother wasting time hunting
deer unless you already have all the gear and experience. Set snares
around your camp instead. It's more reliable. If all else fails, these
emergency food bars are good for up to 5 years and pack enough calories
to keep you going for a long, long time.

### [Camelbak or Platypus][]

You're going to need water containers. Have a variety, but don't keep
them all filled up. Learn to treat your water so you don't have to carry
it all with you. Carry the empty containers with a minimum amount of
water for drinking as you travel, then fill them up when you stop, treat
them, and save yourself the weight. 1 liter of water weights about 1kg.
That adds up quick.

### [Youngstown Glove 05-3080-70-L General Utility Lined with KEVLAR Glove Large, Gray][]

The most common place to injure yourself working in survival situations
is on your hands. Protect them with more than a pair of designer cotton
gloves. These guys have Kevlar on the insides and outsides of your
hands. Fantastic, and worth the price. Test them out with some yard work
and you'll see what I mean.

### [Backpacker Poncho][]

Get a poncho that will keep you and your stuff dry.

![Gear Right][]

### [Gossamer Gear Mariposa Ultralight Backpack][]

Pack choices are a highly personal decision. I'm an ultra-light
backpacker, so this relatively cheap bag from Gossamer Gear is a
fantastic fit for me. The one pictured is a slightly older model than
the link. Remember, you may need to carry your emergency gear at some
point. You can't just rely on the car to get you everywhere. Plan ahead
for the un-fun possibilities.

### [Minus33 100% Merino Wool Base Layer 703 LightWeight Short Sleeve Crew Neck Top][]

I don't want to go over clothing too much, but let me make a brief
mention about the basics here. Pack in layers: base layer, mid layer,
outer layer, insulation. Avoid cotton or other fabrics that won't hold
your heat when wet. You might spend some time being dirty. That's ok.
Pick things that you can wear again and again and that will hold
together. Quality over quantity here.

### [Lodge Logic Dutch Oven with Loop Handles][]

This luxury will probably the first thing to be left behind if we have
to set out on foot. It's damn heavy, but what a versatile cooking tool.
It works in your oven, in your fireplace, or on a campfire. It cleans up
with a quick rinse and is ready to go again. Pure camping-cooking
heaven.

### [Outdoor Research Wind Pro Balaclava][]

Leave the baseball cap. Dress for function, not form. This will keep you
warm, and that's what's really important.

### [Spectra¬Æ Braided Cord 1050lb test - Heavy Duty Speargun Line - (1/8"DIA x 100ft LEN)][]

This cord is great for any number of uses, but it is in the kit
especially for hanging a bear-bag. I use the PCT method myself, so I
have the tools to fit it. In a pinch, though, you can get away with just
a bag and line. Wildlife have incredible senses of smells. Remember, if
you are outside, you don't have walls keeping your food and gear safe.
Be wary and hang your food.

### [Stuff Sacks (Bear Bag, etc)][]

To go along with the line above, these stuff sacks from zpacks are
wonderful. They weigh almost nothing and are very sturdy.

### [Tempest Tent][]

There's a lot of ways to make a shelter outdoors. This is a pretty
hardcore 4-season lightweight tent. It's not the cheapest solution, nor
the best in all situations. I use it for a variety of camping conditions
outside of my emergency kit. If you aren't much of an outdoorsman,
there's probably a better shelter for you. Ask around at Gander Mtn or
REI, or bug your local scouts when they try to sell you popcorn.

### [Littlbug Junior Stove][]

There's a lot of stove options for the backcountry. White gas, kerosene,
etc, are all valid. This "stove" is little more than a wind-shield and
chimney for a tiny wood fire. It fits in my ultra-light model. If you
know how to make a fire, this might work for you. If you get something
more fancy, have a backup, and make sure you have plenty of fuel.

### [Snow Peak Ti-Mini Solo Combo Cook Set][]

Have something to heat up water. In survival situations, many times
"cooking" literally means, "add hot water". Heat to purify. Heat to
rehydrate. Heat!

### [Snow Peak Ti-Double H600 Stacking Mug][]

This mug stacks nicely with the cookset above, so I have a pot for
heating the water, and a cup for eating. It keeps my cooking pot clean.

### [Z Lite Mattress][]

Sleeping on the ground can be rough. Go easy on your back with a little
layer. More importantly, get some insulation between your body and the
ground. The earth will suck the heat right out of you.

### [Jacks-R-Better Sierra Sniveler][]

I have horrible restless leg syndrome, and most sleeping bags feel like
a coffin to me. A nice power-down quilt gives me the warmth I need at
night without the restrictive footbox. Pick whatever works for you. The
single most dangerous thing when you are forced to sleep outside is
exposure. You will die from exposure in a single night. Make sure you
have good shelter before you even worry about water or food.

### [waterBOB Emergency Drinking Water Storage][]

This is not pictured, but very handy. If you are going to be staying in
your house without power for a while, toss this into your bathtub and
fill it up right away. 100 gallons of water will last you a while.
Purify it to drink, grab a bucket and pour it in the back of your toilet
to flush it manually, clean yourself up. Just remember to be more
conservative if you are unlikely to have help or power restored in the
near future. It may have to last a while.

  [All Gear]: https://blog.tomasino.org/images/emergency-gear-all.jpg
    "Emergency Gear (All)"
  [Gear Left]: https://blog.tomasino.org/images/emergency-gear-left.jpg
    "Emergency Gear (Left)"
  [MTM Survivor Dry Box with O-Ring Seal]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002KENWZY/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Adventure Medical Kits Trauma Packwith QuikClot]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003BS2PW4/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Quake Kare Emergency Thermal Blankets (4 Pack)]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0007N0XDO/?tag=tomablog-20
  [OtterBox 1000 Series Waterproof Case]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000F1ULU8/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Medique 40061 First Aid Kit, 61-Piece]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001W6RIK6/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Et√≥n FR160R Microlink Self-Powered AM/FM/NOAA Weather Radio with Flashlight, Solar Power and Cell Phone Charger (Red)]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001QTXKC4/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Rothco 550lb. Type III Nylon Paracord]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000S5ODNC/?tag=tomablog-20
  [3M Scotch Heavy Duty All-Weather Duct Tape, 1.88-Inch by 45-Yard, 1-Pack (2245)]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0013AX62K/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Hand Axe]: https://sogknives.com/store/F09.html
  [Chainmate CM-24SSP 24-Inch Survival Pocket Chain Saw With Pouch]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0026OOS60/?tag=tomablog-20
  [ADC Medicut Shears, 7-1/4"]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0011MIQUM/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Snow Peak Titanium Spork]: https://www.snowpeak.com/tableware/cutlery/titanium-original-spork-sct-004.html
  [Entrenching Tool]: https://sogknives.com/store/F08.html
  [Leatherman]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005DI0XM4/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Beretta Airlight II Tactical Knife, 30% Serrated 2.25" Skeleton Blade]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0009XSKZA/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Smith's PP1 Pocket Pal Multifunction Sharpener]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000O8OTNC/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Potable Aqua Water Treatment Tablets]: https://www.amazon.com/Potable-Aqua-Water-Treatment-Tablets/dp/B001949TKS/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Side note: you can also use bleach to purify water!]: https://www.doh.wa.gov/Emergencies/EmergencyPreparednessandResponse/Factsheets/WaterPurification.aspx
  [Petzl E97 Tikka Plus 2 Headlamp]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0027H0IME/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Gerber Infinity Ultra Task Light]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000KCRQRS/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Bic Lighters]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B004EX020C/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Mora Sweden Classic #1 Red Wood Handle Carbon Steel Knife]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005N83OPM/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Folding Camp Saw]: https://sogknives.com/store/F10.html
  [Datrex 3600 Emergency Food Bar]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CSAHW0/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Camelbak or Platypus]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B001KZGYLS/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Youngstown Glove 05-3080-70-L General Utility Lined with KEVLAR Glove Large, Gray]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GQ7IJE/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Backpacker Poncho]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0055FECT0/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Gear Right]: https://blog.tomasino.org/images/emergency-gear-right.jpg
    "Emergency Gear (right)"
  [Gossamer Gear Mariposa Ultralight Backpack]: https://gossamergear.com/mariposa-2012-ultralight-backpack.html
  [Minus33 100% Merino Wool Base Layer 703 LightWeight Short Sleeve Crew Neck Top]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B000R7A3EY/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Lodge Logic Dutch Oven with Loop Handles]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00063RWYI/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Outdoor Research Wind Pro Balaclava]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B003S3RFLI/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Spectra¬Æ Braided Cord 1050lb test - Heavy Duty Speargun Line - (1/8"DIA x 100ft LEN)]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B004L234TW/?tag=tomablog-20
  [Stuff Sacks (Bear Bag, etc)]: https://www.zpacks.com/accessories/stuff_sacks.shtml
  [Tempest Tent]: https://www.blackdiamondequipment.com/en-us/shop/mountain/shelters/tempest-tent
  [Littlbug Junior Stove]: https://littlbug.com/littlbug_stove_junior.html
  [Snow Peak Ti-Mini Solo Combo Cook Set]: https://www.snowpeak.com/cookware/backpacking/ti-mini-solo-combo-scs-004t.html
  [Snow Peak Ti-Double H600 Stacking Mug]: https://www.snowpeak.com/tableware/cups-mugs/ti-double-h600-stacking-mug-tw-121.html
  [Z Lite Mattress]: https://cascadedesigns.com/therm-a-rest/mattresses/fast-and-light/z-lite/product
  [Jacks-R-Better Sierra Sniveler]: https://www.jacksrbetter.com/shop/sierra-sniveller/
  [waterBOB Emergency Drinking Water Storage]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AXLUX2/?tag=tomablog-20
